**PACT ET SOLUTEN PRETTY BLUTEN PACT IT JOB SELUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT XS SOLUTION 

2068 

MCQ 

PACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACTE DO DWUTER.COM CTTY JAN KELATION COMPACT IS ESSEURUSTEIN CEROPACT IN JOO BERATEN (EDPACT IT IS SOLUTE COPACT IN 100 ROUTEREPORT 

13. A path for carrying signals between a source and destination is known as- 

A) Router 

C) Link 

Ans: B 

B) Channel 

D) Block Note: A communication channel refers either to a physical transmission medium such as a wire, or to a logical connection over a multiplexed medium such as a radio channel in telecommunications and computer networking. A channel is used to convey an information signal, for example a digital bit stream, from one or several senders (or transmitters) to one or several receivers. A channel has certain capacity for transmitting information, often measured by its bandwidth in Hz or its data rate in bits per second. 

14. Which of the standard protocol for network management features? 

B) SNA 

C) FTP 

D) SMTP 

a 

A) SNMP 

Ans: A Note: Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is an Internet Standard protocol for collecting and organizing information about managed devices on IP networks and for modifying that information to change device behavior. Devices that typically support SNMP include cable modems, routers, switches, servers, workstations, printers, and more. 

Systems Network Architecture (SNA) 

File Transfer Protocol (FTP) 

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) 

15. In SQL, the 

A) Compile View 

C) Alter View 

command is used to recompile a view. 

B) Define View 

D) Create View 

Ans: C 

Note: Use the ALTER VIEW statement to explicitly recompile a view that is invalid or to modify view constraints. Explicit recompilation lets you locate recompilation errors before run time. You may want to recompile a view explicitly after altering one of its base tables to ensure that the alteration does not affect the view or other objects that depend on it. 

16. Which of the following is not a standard synchronous communication protocol? 

A) SDLC 

B) SLIP 

C) PAS 

D) SMTP 

Ans: C Note: In Synchronous Transmission, data is sent in form of blocks or frames. This transmission is the full duplex type. Between sender and receiver, the synchronization is compulsory. In Synchronous transmission, there is no gap present between data. It is more efficient and more reliable than asynchronous transmission to transfer the large amount of data. A communications protocol that controls a synchronous transmission, such as SDLC, SMTP, SLIP (Serial Line Internet Protocol) and HDLC (High-level Data Link Control). 

17. Which of the following term refers to the degree to which data in a database system 

are accurate and correct? 

A) Data integrity 

B) Data security 

D) None of these 

C) Data Validity 

Ans: A 

Note: Data integrity is a fundamental component of information security. In its broadest use, "data integrity" refers to the accuracy and consistency of data stored in a database, data warehouse, data mart or other construct. 

18. The complexity of Bubble sort algorithm is- 

A) O(n) 

B) O (log n) 

C) O(n2) 

D) O(n log n) 

Ans: C 

Note: In Bubble Sort, n-1 comparisons will be done in the 1st pass, n-2 in 2nd pass, n-3 in 3rd pass and so on. So the total number of comparisons will be, (n-1) + (n-2) + (n-3) + ..... + 3 + 2 + 1; Sum n(n-1)/2; i.e. O(n2). Hence the time complexity of Bubble Sort is: O(n2). 

NOT SURE COMPACTTĪRS SLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SLEDI COMPACTORDEXACT IT IS SAUD DROID SOLSTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IS XOSSELIST 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

= 

SOLUTION COMPACT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT OF 2 ORE 

Page | 162 

Question Bank 

MCQ 

PRIDADONPACT IT SUD SOLUTEN CROACT 17 XO SELLUTEN COMPACT ES BOUTEN COMPACT ITS SOLUTER COPACIOSUDN CPACT IDODONOTONOIDUD NOTOODUD OOTDODONATART ACT IT 

BREB 

Assistant Junior Engineer (IT) 

Exam: 2019 

1. Which one is a Web Browser? 

A) Google Chorme 

B) Mozila Firefox 

C) Internet Explorer 

D) All Ans: D Note: A web browser, or simply "browser," is an application used to access and view websites. Common web browsers include Microsoft Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Apple Safari. The primary function of a web browser is to render HTML, the code used to design or "markup" webpages. 

2. Write the name of the Gate: D 

A) NOR 

B) OR 

C) NAND 

D) None 

Ans: A 

Note: A NOR gate is a logic gate which gives a positive output only when both inputs are negative. Like NAND gates, NOR gates are so-called "universal gates" that can be combined to form any other kind of logic gate. 

3. The step-by-step instruction that solve a problem is called: 

B) a list 

A) an algorithm 

C) a plan D) a sequential structure Ans: A Note: The word Algorithm means "a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations". Therefore, Algorithm refers to a set of rules/instructions that step-by-step define how a work is to be executed upon in order to get the expected results. 

4. Which layer of OSI determines the interface of the system with the user? 

B) Application 

C) Data-link 

A) Network 

D) Session Ans: B Note: The application layer is a layer in the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) seven-layer model and in the TCP/IP protocol suite. It consists of protocols that focus on process-to-process communication across an IP network and provides a firm communication interface and end-user services. 

5. A hardware device that is capable of executing a sequence of instructions is known 

as: 

B) ALU 

C) CU 

D) Processor 

A) CPU 

Ans: D Note: A hardware device that is capable of executing a sequence of instructions, is known as 

processor. 

6. Which is the easiest component to environmentally recycle? 

A) Motherboards 

C) Toner cartridges 

B) CMOS batteries D) Cathode ray tubes 

Ans: C 

Note: A toner cartridge, also called laser toner, is the consumable component of a laser printer. Toner cartridges contain toner powder, a fine, dry mixture of plastic particles, carbon, and black or other coloring agents that make the actual image on the paper. 7. What is the Address bit for an 8-bit Microprocessor? 

A) 4 

B) 8 

C) 16 

D) None 

Ans: C 

Note: Eight-bit CPUs use an 8-bit data bus and can therefore access 8 bits of data in a single machine instruction. The address bus is typically a double octet wide (i.e. 16-bit), due to practical and economic considerations. This implies a direct address space of only 64 kB on most 8-bit processors. 

DUD DMPACT IT IS BELLATION COMPACT IT IS BOLLITION COMPACT IT IS SOLUUTER COMPACT IT JED SOLUUTEN COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION CEPACTIT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

CLUTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLVOON COMPACTED OWER COMPACTED WE REACT 

BUTEDOPPACT ST 

Page | 163 

Question Bank 

MCQ 

COMPACTTY XOS EDUUREN CONSPICYTY XX8 SOLLTEN COMENICY TY XOS SOLUTION COMPACT E IN SOULSTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACTET EN ROUTER PRETTY SOUTIEN COMPACT TV EN KLAPEN (NAT I ABSOLUTAN (EPPACT IT IS EXATION COMPACT IT IS ELLSTEN COMPACT IS OUTPATI 

8. What command is used to remove files UNIX? 

B) rm 

C) delete 

D) erase 

Ans: B 

A) dm Note: rm stands for remove here. rm command is used to remove objects such as files, directories, symbolic links and so on from the file system like UNIX. 

9. Which one can be used for read only? 

A) RAM 

B) ROM 

C) Both A & B 

Ans: B 

D) None Note: RAM (Random Access Memory) and ROM (Read Only Memory) are both types of computer memory. RAM is used to store computer programs and data that CPU needs in real time. RAM data is volatile and is erased once computer is switched off. ROM have prerecorded data and it is used to boot computer. RAM data is static and remains in the computer even if computer is switched off. 

10. সিগন্যালের পারস্পারিক রূপান্তর করে- 

A) মডেম 

B) হাব 

C) রাউটার 

D) গেটওয়ে 

tah Ans: A 

Note: A modem is a device or program that enables a computer to transmit data over, for example, telephone or cable lines. Computer information is stored digitally, whereas information transmitted over telephone lines is transmitted in the form of analog waves. A modem converts between these two forms. 

11. Which format specifier is used for typing double data? 

A) %f 

Note: 

B) %lf 

%C 

%d 

%f 

%i 

%lf 

#ten/ 

%Lf 

%p 

%S 

%u 

C) %d 

D) %s 

Character 

Signed integer 

Float values 

Unsigned integer 

Double 

Long double 

Pointer 

String 

Unsigned int 

Ans: B 

How & Wod sunsh 

MA 

12. Which one is used to close running document? 

Stewbied A 

A18 

D) None 

Ans: A 

A) ctrl+W 

B) ctrl+S 

C) ctrl+A Note: ctrl+S: Save current document file; ctrl+A: Select all text. 13. Which one is pure object-oriented language? 

B) C+ 

C) Java 

tip 

A) C++ 

D) None 129fess urbi dold Ans: A Note: Pure Object-Oriented Language or Complete Object-Oriented Language are Fully Object- Oriented Language which supports or have features which treats everything inside program as objects. It doesn't support primitive datatype (like int, char, float, bool, etc.) 14. A nibble is equal to: 

B) 6-bits 

C) 8-bits 

D) 16-bits 

Ans: A 

A) 4-bits Note: A nibble is a four-bit aggregation, or half an octet. It is also known as half-byte or tetrade. In a networking or telecommunication context, the nibble is often called a semi-octet, quadbit, or quartet. A nibble has sixteen (24) possible values. A nibble can be represented by a single hexadecimal digit and called a hex digit. 

bbr 

COMPACT IT 233 SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT 1200 BOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT ST 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT 1 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

SELUTEN COMPACT IT 

Morro BL Page | 164 

Question Bank 

TESSUTIEN COMPACT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT OUTEN COMPACT XS SOLUTION COMPACTIT 

15. What is the full name of LCD? 

A) Light control diode 

C) Liquid crystal diode 

Dirac MCQ 

insa noias 

DSLUTEN COMPACT TO SOLUTEN COMPACT IT TO SOUTEN COMPACT 2 SOLISTEN ONTDELITERCOMPACT I 

B) Light crystal display 

D) Liquid crystal display 

Ans: D 

Note: LCD (Liquid Crystal Display) is a type of flat panel display which uses liquid crystals in its primary form of operation. LEDs have a large and varying set of use cases for consumers and businesses, as they can be commonly found in smartphones, televisions, computer monitors and instrument panels. 

16. The OR, XOR & AND functions can be performed by 

CPU. 

B) CU 

C) Memory 

of the computer in a 

D) Register 

A) ALU 

Ans: A Note: An Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU), which is capable of performing logical operations (e.g. AND, OR, EX-OR, Invert etc.) in addition to the arithmetic operations (e.g. Addition, Subtraction etc.). The control unit supplies the data required by the ALU from memory, or from input devices, and directs the ALU to perform a specific operation based on the instruction fetched from the memory. ALU is the "calculator" portion of the computer. 

17. What device separates a single network into two segments but lets the two segments 

appear as one to higher protocols? 

BA) Switch 

B) Bridge 

C) Gateways D) Router 

Ans: B 

Note: A network bridge is a computer networking device that creates a single aggregate network from multiple communication networks or network segments. This function is called network bridging. Because gateway connects two different network while bridge connects two similar networks. 18. Which one is database language? 

B) DML 

C) Both A & B 

D) None 

Ans: C 

A) DDL Note: A DBMS has appropriate languages and interfaces to express database queries and updates. Database languages can be used to read, store and update the data in the database. DDL stands for Data Definition Language. It is used to define database structure or pattern. It is used to create schema, tables, indexes, constraints, etc. in the database. DML stands for Data Manipulation Language. It is used for accessing and manipulating data in a database. It handles user requests. 

19. একটি ওয়েব এক সাইকেল এ যে দূরত্ব অতিক্রম করে তাকে বলে- 

A) Frequency B) Cycle 

C) Wave length 

D) None 

Ans: A 

Note: Frequency is defined as a number of cycles per unit time. The relation between the frequency 

and the period, T, of a repeating event or oscillation is given by f ==. 20. What can greatly reduce TCP/IP configuration problem? 

C) DHCP Server 

D) PDC 

A) WINS Server B) WINS Power 

Ans: C Note: A DHCP Server is a network server that automatically provides and assigns IP addresses, default gateways and other network parameters to client devices. It relies on the standard protocol known as Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol or DHCP to respond to broadcast queries by clients. 

oro box gudsb 

COMPACT IT 208 BOLANTERN COMPACTTY 

LITEN COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTEN COMPACT IT SOLUTE COMPACT IT OUTER COMPACT ET JOB 

DONCT IT X18 SODOM 

SOWEN COMPACT DOUTD OPACT 

WTH COMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITU 02 BOLT Page 165 

Question Bank 

Nas noites MCQ 

CONFUSTER COMPACT IT DOSEAUTER COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT ZY JOB SELLSTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOBSOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB HOLSTEN C 

ACT BY JOB BOLLTEN COMPACT ET 308 DLATERCOPATI 

Combined Bank 

Senior Officer (IT/ICT): 2018 Exam Taker: DU 

1. Which alternative can replace the throw statement in C++? 

A) for 

B) break 

C) return 

D) exit 

Ans: C 

Note: The commonly used alternative to try / catch / throw is to return a return code (sometimes called an error code) that the caller explicitly tests via some conditional statement such as if. 2. Which operator is used to declare the destructor in C++? 

A) # 

B) ~ 

C) @ 

D) $ 

Ans: B 

Note: Destructor is a member function which destructs or deletes an object. Destructors have same name as the class preceded by a tilde (~) 

3. What type of reference should be used in vector arithmetic in C++? 

B) const 

C) a and b 

D) none of the mentioned Ans: B 

A) Dynamic Note: As we are using the vector and it will give accurate result if we use const reference.gs 4. Which of these data types is used by operating system to manage the Recursion in 

Java? 

A) Array 

B) Stack 

Note: Recursions are always managed by using stack. 

C) Queue 

D) Tree 

Ans: B 

5. Which of the following is an incorrect statement about packages? tono doid f 

A) Package defines a namespace in which classes are stored B) A package can contain other packages within 

quiggs and 2180 A 907 

C) A package can be renamed without renaming the directory, in which the classes are stored D) Java uses file system directories to store packages Note: A package can be renamed only after renaming the directory in which the classes are stored. 6. A derived class inherits attributes from a- 

Ans: C 

B) Sub Class C) Inner Class 

D) Upper Class 

Ans: A 

A) Super Class Note: To recap what you've seen before; classes can be derived from other classes. The derived class (the class that is derived from another class) is called a subclass. The class from which it's derived is called the superclass. 

Multiple inheritances in Java can be implemented using which of the following? 

7. 

A) Interfaces 

C) Protected methods 

B) Multithreading 

D) Private methods 

Ans: A 

Note: Multiple inheritance in java is implemented using interfaces. Multiple interfaces can be implemented by a class. 

8. Which component is used to compile, debug and execute in Java program? 

A) JVM 

B) JDK 

C) JIT 

D) JRE 

Ans: B 

Note: JDK is core component of Java Environment and provides all the tools, executables and binaries required to compile, debug and execute a Java Program. 

DUEN COPACT IT DOWN C 

SOLLTEN CORPCIDSOLUTER COMPACT IT 208 SOLLTEN PACT XEOLUTEN COMPACTTY JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION 

08 SOLUTION COMPACT SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOB SOLUTION COMPACT I JOS CATERCOMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Page | 166 

Question Bank 

Ansa noides MCQ 

2SOLUTEIN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB BELLATION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT 17 203 BOLITION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT DUTEN COMPACT ET BOLLATION COMPACT IT OR SOLUUTERI CEROPRIET IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT EXISTEN COMPACT SURCOMPACT IT 

9. Which of the following statements is the negation of the statements "4 is odd or -9 is 

positive"? 

A) 4 is even or -9 is not negative 

C) 4 is even and -9 is negative 

B) 4 is odd or -9 is not negative D) 4 is odd and -9 is not negative 

Ans: C 

Note: Using De Morgan's Law A + B = A.B 

10. Which of the following options is suitable, if A is "10110110", B is "11100000" and C 

is "10100000"? 

B) C=Ā 

C) C=B 

A) C=A or B Note: Output of AND is 1 when both other inputs are one. 11. If A= {1,2,3} and B= {1,2,5} then A-B=? 

B) {5} 

A) {1} Note: A-B = {1,2,3} - {1,2,5} = {3} 

C) {3} 

12. The complexity of Binary search algorithm is- 

Ans: C 

D) C=A and B 

Ans: D 

D) {2} 

A) O(n) 

B) O (log n) 

C) O(n2) 

D) O(n log n) 

Ans: B 

Note: The Complexity of Binary Search Algorithm is O(log n). Here, n is the number of elements in the sorted linear array. 

Web page is- 

13. A nonstandard HTML extension that causes scrolling text to appear as pan of a 

A) DHCP B) mask off 

C) Dhrystone D) marquee 

Ans: D 

Note: A marquee can scroll, slide, or alternate from side to side. HTML Marquee The BOSS IS ON A ROLL (behavior-scroll) .js is an alternative to marquee tag, which is an old and non-standard HTML element, that causes text/image/element to scroll up, down, left or right automatically. 

14. Object being passed to a copy constructor- 

A) Must be passed by reference 

C) Must be passed with integer type 

B) Must not be mentioned in parameter list D) Must be passed by value 

Ans: A 

Note: This is mandatory to pass the object by reference. Otherwise, the object will try to create another object to copy its values, in turn a constructor will be called, and this will keep on calling itself. This will cause the compiler to give out of memory error. 

15. Why do you need to handle exceptions? 

A) To prevent abnormal termination of program 

B) To encourage exception prone program 

C) To avoid syntax errors 

D) To save memory 

Ans: A 

Note: The core advantage of exception handling is to maintain the normal flow of the application. 16. If same message is passed to objects of several different classes and all of those can 

respond in a different way, what is this feature called? 

A) Inheritance 

C) Polymorphism 

B) Overloading 

D) Overriding 

Ans: C 

Note: The feature defined in question defines polymorphism feature. Here the different objects are capable of responding to the same message in different ways, hence polymorphism. 

17. Does constructor overloading include different return types for constructors to be 

overloaded? 

A) Yes, if return types are different, signature becomes different 

B) Yes, because return types can differentiate two functions 

C) No, return type can't differentiate two functions 

COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTEN COMPACT IT SOLUTEN COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT ITX SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SELLATTEN COMPACT TEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ST 238 SOLUTION COMPACT ITX 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

ATD COMPACT IT 

Page 167 

Question Bank 

MCQ 

Ans: D 

D) No, constructors don't have any return type Note: The constructors don't have any return type. When we can't have return type of a constructor, overloading based on the return type is not possible. Hence only parameters can be different. 

18. (2019)10 in Binary is 

A) 0000011111100010 

B) 0000001111110011 

C) 0000001111110010 

D) 0000011111100011 

Ans: D 

lol ) to do! 

Note: 

210 29 

28 

27 

༡༠ 

25 

24 

23 

22 

21 

20 

1024 

512 

256 

128 

64 

32 

16 

8 

4 

2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

19. An array contains the following letters, Color = {E, L, E, C, T, I, O, N}. The value of 

the variable, E=3, Color[E] points to which value? 

A) E 

B) C 

C) T 

D) 1 

Ans: B 

Note: All arrays have 0 as the index of their first element which is also called the base index and the last index of an array will be total size of the array minus 1. 

Index 

Elements 

0 E 

1 

L 

2 

E 

3 

C 

4 

5 

6 

7 

T 

I 

O 

N 

20. How to access the overridden method of base class from the derived class? 

A) Using arrow operator 

B) Using dot operator 

Ans: B 

C) Using scope resolution operator D) Can't be accessed once overridden Note: In any object-oriented programming language, Overriding is a feature that allows a subclass or child class to provide a specific implementation of a method that is already provided by one of its super-classes or parent classes. 

21. When two variables are logically compared, the logic gate that tests the equivalence 

is- 

B) XOR 

C) AND 

A) XNOR 

D) NOR Ans: A Note: An XNOR gate (sometimes referred to by its extended name, Exclusive NOR gate) is a digital logic gate with two or more inputs and one output that performs logical equality. The output of an XNOR gate is true when all of its inputs are true or when all of its inputs are false. 22. Which of the following is not a malware? 

A) Virus 

B) Worm 

C) Bug 

D) Trojan horse 

Ans: C 

Note: Bug is the logical error of a program. Virous, worm and Trojan horse are malicious program. 23. (11100010)2 has a decimal value of 

A) 252 

B) 225 

C) 226 

Note: Step by step solution 

Step 1: Write down the binary number: 11100010 

D) 220 

301 

Ans: C 

Step 2: Multiply each digit of the binary number by the corresponding power of two: 1x27 + 1x26 + 1x25+0x24 +0x23 +0x22 + 1x21 +0x2° 

Step 3: Solve the powers: 1x128 + 1x64 + 1x32 +0x16+0x8 +0x4 + 1x2 +0x1 = 128 +64 +32 +0+0+0+2+0 

G Step 4: Add up the numbers written above: 128 +64 + 32 +0+0+0+2+0=226. 

So, 226 is the decimal equivalent of the binary number 11100010. 

24. Dark data represents 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

PACT 15 208 SOLUTION CEROPACT BY 23 

norre ao TIPage | 168 

Question Bank 

TOELATED ADDIET IT AD ELLER OKTAR CEPURET SI EN WAASTEM (PORCH IT ESTAREMORENO 

A) Unused data 

C) Highlighted data 

B) Harmful data D) Important data 

MCQ 

CONCI DI EBOND DUDOTTO DUTERCONDACT IT 

Ans: A 

Note: Dark data is data which is acquired through various computer network operations but not used in any manner to derive insights or for decision making. The ability of an organization to collect data can exceed the throughput at which it can analyses the data. 

25. Source code is a(an) 

A) Program 

B) List of commands D) Algorithm 

C) Source of variables 

Ans: B 

Note: Source code is any collection of code, possibly with comments, written using a human- readable programming language, usually as plain text. The source code of a program is specially designed to facilitate the work of computer programmers, who specify the actions to be performed by a computer mostly by writing source code. 

26. Which of the following defines the addressing capabilities of the networking? 

A) OSL 

B) NAT 

C) TCP 

Ans: B 

D) UDP Note: Network address translation (NAT) is a method of remapping one IP address space into another by modifying network address information in the IP header of packets while they are in transit across a traffic routing device. 

27. How many layers are there in the software part of networking framework? 

A) Three 

Note: 

B) Seven 

C) Four 

D) Five 

Software layer: Application, Presentation, Session, Transport and Network. Hardware layer: Datalink and Physical. 

Host layer: Application, Presentation, Session, Transport. 

Media layer: Network, Datalink and Physical. 

28. AR refers to which of the following environment— 

A) Artificial Reality 

C) Artificial Report 

B) Augmented Report 

D) Augmented Reality 

Ans: D 

Ans: D 

Note: Augmented reality (AR) is a type of interactive, reality-based display environment that takes the capabilities of computer-generated display, sound, text and effects to enhance the user's real-world experience. 

29. Which of the following is the smallest size in the list? 

A) Zettabyte 

B) Gigabyte 

Note: 

ag copr 

Data Measurement 

C) Petabyte tin D) Terabyte 

Ans: B 

Size 

Bit Byte 

Single Binary Digit (1 or 0) 

8 bits 

Kilobyte (KB) 

1,024 Bytes 

Megabyte (MB) 

1,024 Kilobytes 

2x 80 Ans 30 

Gigabyte (GB) 

1,024 Megabytes 

Terabyte (TB) 

1,024 Gigabytes 

Petabyte (PB) 

1,024 Terabytes 

Exabyte (EB) 

1,024 Petabytes 

30. A primary key must also be- 

A) Foreign key 

B) Unique 

C) Identical 

D) Case sensitive 

Ans: B 

DO BLUES CEPPACT ET 208 SOLUTION COMPACTST 

SOLATEN COMPACT ET XD SOLUTEN COMPACT IT WENEDICT TT 200 SOLLTEN CEPACT TV 2030 SEATER CENACT ET 2 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJO8.800 

LUTEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUT DROOPPACT ST 

Page | 169 

Question Bank 

OIBOSLAT SOLLTEN COMPACT BY AND SOLISE 

MCQ 

MPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET DO SEXLUTION COMPACT ET 308 SOLSTEENCOMPACT ST 

Note: A primary key is a special relational database table column (or combination of columns) designated to uniquely identify all table records. 

31. Memory management scheme by which a computer stores and retrieves data from 

secondary storage for use in main memory is- 

A) Paging 

C) Batch processing 

B) Scheduling 

D) Virtual storage 

571 

Ans: A Note: In computer operating systems, paging is a memory management scheme by which a computer stores and retrieves data from secondary storage for use in main memory. In this scheme, the operating system retrieves data from secondary storage in same-size blocks called pages. 

32. A single communication system that transfers and connects the data between major 

components inside a computer is- 

A) Address Bus 

B) Data Bus 

C) System Bus 

D) Control Bus 

Ans: B 

Note: An address bus is a computer bus architecture. It is used to transfer data between devices. The devices are identified by the hardware address of the physical memory (the physical address). The address is stored in the form of binary numbers to enable the data bus to access memory storage. 33. USB stands for- 

A) Universal Serial Bus 

C) Universal Serial Bits 

B) Universal Series Bus 

D) Universal Series Bits 

Ans: A 

Note: Universal Serial Bus (USB) is an industry standard that establishes specifications for cables and connectors and protocols for connection, communication and power supply (interfacing) between computers, peripherals and other computers. 

34. int C=10; System.out.println(C--); gives a output of- 

A) 10 

B) 11 

C) 9 

D) 8 

Ans: A 

Note: In programming (Java, C, C++ etc.), the increment operator ++ increases the value of a variable by 1. Similarly, the decrement operator -- decreases the value of a variable by 1. If a 5 

++a; 

// a becomes 6 

a++; 

// a becomes 7 

--a; 

// a becomes 6 

a--; 

// a becomes 5 

A) Hex Editor B) Unity 

C) HTML 5 D) Adobe Flash 

35. All of the following are considered gaming engine except- 

Ans: C 

Note: The HTML5 canvas element opened up a whole new avenue for games programming. Using some JavaScript and 2D graphics, anybody could build games that run in any web browser. 36. Which of the following logical connectives is not included in SQL? 

A) AND 

B) OR 

C) NOR 

D) NOT 

Ans: D 

Note: "NOT" is not a logical connective included in the SQL. The AND, OR and NOR are logical connectives that are included in SQL. 

37. The full form of "Wi-Fi" is- 

A) Wireless Internet 

C) Wireless Field 

B) Wireless-Fidelity 

D) Wireless Fiction 

Ans: B 

Note: Wi-Fi is a local area wireless technology. It allows an electronic device to transfer data or connect to the internet using ISM radio bands. It is an underlying technology of wireless local area network (WLAN). Wi-Fi allows computers and other devices to communicate over a wireless network. 

COMPACT ITXBSOLUTER COMPACT ITXELATION COMPACT ITXIBSOLUTER COMPACT IT SOLATION COMPRICT ET 208 SOLUTION COMPACT TT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT BOLLTON COMPACT IT JOB SOLLATION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT 200 SOLUSTERCOMPACT IT 

Page | 170 

Question Bank 

CTTY JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUSTERN COMPACT ET XS SOLUTEN COMPACT TO SAUTERN COMPACT EXO COUNTER COMM 

MCQ 

POTBOIVION COMPACT IDQADCOPACT TROUEN ONG DSUTD PACT IT 

Wi-Fi network components are based on the one of the 802.11 standards developed by the IEEE and adopted by Wi-Fi alliance. 

38. What represents a row in a relational database? 

A) variable 

B) tuple 

C) entity 

D) field 

Ans: B 

Note: In the context of a relational database, a row-also called a tuple-represents a single, implicitly structured data item in a table. In simple terms, a database table can be thought of as consisting of rows and columns. 

Combined Bank Maintenance Engineer MCQ Test: 2018 

1. A host machine is unable to communicate with google server. Which command is the most appropriate to run at host machine to determine which intermediary device is responsible for this failure? 

A) telnet 192.168.1.1 

C) tracert 192.168.1.1 

B) ping 192.168.1.1 D) ftp 192.168.1.1 

Ans: C 

Note: Traceroute (tracert) is a command which can show the path a packet of information takes form your computer to one you specify. It will list all the routers it passes through until it reaches its destination, or fails to and is discarded. In addition to this, it will tell you how long each 'hop' from 

router to router takes. 

2. Which one is modern lightweight message exchange format? 

A) JSON 

B) MX 

Note: [PKB-AP-2019-Q. 6] 

C) HTML 

D) XML 

3. A shared lock allows which of the following type of transaction to occur? 

B) Insert 

C) Read 

ly read this data but 

Ans: A 

A) Delete 

viD) Update Ans: C Note: When resource is locked you can only read this data but you can't update or modify data. 

4. Which is not feature of object-oriented programming? 

A) inheritance B) recursion C) encapsulation 

D) abstraction Ans: B 

Note: The important features of Object-Oriented programming are: Inheritance, Polymorphism, Data Hiding, Encapsulation, Overloading, Reusability. 

5. Which of the following protocols uses both TCP and UDP ports? 

A) SMTP 

B) Telnet 

C) FTP 

D) DNS 

Ans: D 

Note: DNS uses TCP for zone exchanges between servers and UDP when a client is trying to resolve a hostname to an IP address. 

6. To divide a class C network into a maximum of 14 subnets- each capable of having 

up to 14 hosts. The subnet mask used should be 

A) 255.255.255.240 

C) 255.255.255.78 

B) 255.255.255.192 D) 255.255.255.0 

Ans: A 

Note: If need up to 14 hosts so require host bit= 4, because host 24-2-14, so subnet mask= 255.255.255.240 

7. The result of a SQL SELECT statement is a 

A) Report 

B) form 

C) file 

D) table 

Ans: D 

COMPACT IT XB BOLLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 208 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT OR SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT IT 200 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT IS SUSTER COMPACT TES EWTERCOMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 200 

Page | 171 

Question Bank 

MCQ 

DSWD DOROT ISSUER COMPACT IT JOIN SOLIVER COMPACT IT 208 SCLUSTER COMPACT IT JOB SOXATION COMPACT IT 233 SCLAVER COPPACT 17 JOB BOLANTEEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT EXA SOURTER COMPACT B 

Note: The SQL SELECT statement returns a result set of records from one or more tables. A SELECT statement retrieves zero or more rows from one or more database tables or database views. In most applications, Select is the most commonly used data query language (DQL) command. 

8. Email is a protocol of following layer- 

A) Physical layer 

C) Application layer 

B) Data Link Layer D) TCP layer 

Ans: C 

Note: Email protocols belong to the application layer (7). That applies to the main forwarding machine SMTP, but also to the mail access protocols such as POP or IMAP. They make all use of TCP, often even enhanced with TLS/SSL for encryption on transport layer. 

9. Which protocol is used for secure web browsing? 

A) WWW 

B) RSA 

C) ftp 

D) https 

Ans: D 

Note: Hypertext transfer protocol secure (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP, which is the primary protocol used to send data between a web browser and a website. 

10. Which software is mostly used for virtualization? 

A) VMware 

C) Windows XP 

B) Oracle DBMS D) Linux 

Ans: A 

Note: VMware, Inc. is a subsidiary of Dell Technologies that provides cloud computing and platform virtualization software and services. It was one of the first commercially successful companies to virtualize the x86 architecture. 

11. To remove the duplicate rows from the result of an SQL Select statement, the- 

qualifier specified include. 

B) distincttags 

C) unique digit ad 

A) only 

D) single Ans: B Note: The SELECT DISTINCT statement is used to return only distinct (different) values. Inside a table, a column often contains many duplicate values; and sometimes you only want to list the different (distinct) values. 

12. The complexity of Bubble short algorithm is- 

A) O(n) 

B) O (log n) 

Note: [PKB-AP-2018-Q. 10] 

C) O(n2) 

D) O (n log n) 

Ans: C 

doid A 

C) do-while D) All of the above 

13. Which control statement can be executed at least once? 

B) for 

Ans: C 

A) While Note: A do while loop is a control flow statement that executes a block of code at least once, and then repeatedly executes the block, or not, depending on a given Boolean condition at the end of the block. 14. The operation of processing each element in the list is known as---- 

A) Sorting 

B) Merging C) Inserting D) Traversal 

Ans: D 

Note: The operation of processing each element in the list is known as traversal. It refers to the process of visiting (checking and/or updating) each node in a tree data structure, exactly once. 15. Which of the following data structure are index structures? 

B) link list C) both a and b 

A) linear array 

D) none Ans: A Note: A linear array, is a list of finite numbers of elements stored in the memory. In a linear array, we can store only homogeneous data elements. Elements of the array form a sequence or linear list, that can have the same type of data. Each element of the array, is referred by an index set. 

16. The term push and pop related to - 

A) Array 

B) list 

C) stack 

D) all of this 

Ans: C 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

STED COMPACT IDEG 

Page | 172 

Question Bank 

COMPACT IT IS SOLLECION COMPACTITIOS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IS XS SOLUTEN COMPACT IT IS SUTER CONCITAS QUEN GESPRETTY SQUADRO 

N63 taus 

MCQ 

OIDOWED ONTDOORPACT IT 

Note: In Stack, PUSH & POP are the two main operations. Push operation inserts an element in the stack and pop operation deletes an element from the stack. 

17. 

is a statement that is executed automatically by the system. A) Trigger constraint 

C) Durability 

B) Assertion D) Integrity 

Ans: A 

Note: A trigger is a statement or a block of statement which are executed automatically by the system when an event like insert, update or delete takes place on a table. 

18. What does a COMMIT statement do to a CURSOR? 

A) Open the cursor 

C) Close the cursor 

B) Fetch the cursor 

D) None of this 

Ans: D 

Note: The COMMIT statements make permanent any changes made to the database during the current transaction. 

19. Which data structure is used for indexing? 

A) Binary tree 

B) B+ tree 

C) Stack 

D) Link List 

Ans: B 

Note: The data structure most commonly used for database indexes are B-trees, a specific kind of self- balancing tree. The main benefit of a B-tree is that it allows logarithmic selections, insertions, and deletions in the worst-case scenario. 

20. Trojan can be introduced through- 

A) Internet browsing C) Emails 

B) Database accessing D) Troubleshooting 

Ans: C 

Note: Mostly Trojans are introduced via email attachments. these emails are disguised in a way that they look authentic, Once the user downloads the attached file and runs it, the file starts corrupting the system. A Trojan can also come as a payload with freeload with freeware and shareware available on the Internet. 

21. How many layer internet protocol suites? 

100 

B) 5 

C) 3 

D) 4 

C) CODASYL 

10 

D) DASD 

Ans: D 

A) 7 Note: The TCP/IP protocol suite consists of many protocols that operate at one of 4 layers. 22. An acronym for Conference/Committee on Data Systems Languages is? 

A) Collute 

B) CCD 

Ans: C Note: CODASYL, the Conference/Committee on Data Systems Languages, was a consortium formed in 1959 to guide the development of a standard programming language that could be used on many computers. This effort led to the development of the programming language COBOL and other technical standards. 

23. According to Boolean algebra the value of (A+AB). (B+AB) is--- 

A) A 

B) B 

C) AB 

D) 1 

Ans: C 

Note: (A+AB). (B+AB) =A(1+B). B(1+A) = (A.1). (B.1)= AB; because 1+A=1 24. Which of the following correctly shows the hierarchy of algorithm operation in C? 

A) /+*- 

B) *-/+ 

C) +-/* 

D) /*+- 

Ans: D 

Note: Simply called as BODMAS (Bracket of Division, Multiplication, Addition and Subtraction) How Do I Remember? BODMAS! 

B- Brackets first 

O-Orders (i.e. Powers and Square Roots, etc.) DM - Division and Multiplication (left-to-right) AS- Addition and Subtraction (left-to-right) 

25. Consider the following code 

COMPACT DT XIR. SOLAREN CONVICTEMPACT ET 233 SOLADONIDEDOROT DODONTBOUND OBUDOWIBLUEONID SC 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Page | 173 

Question Bank 

ONOTDDD DOT DOTION COMPACT TO SOLUTIO 

#include<stdio.h> 

int main (int argc, char *argv[]) { return 0; } 

B) 1 

C) Undefined 

MCQ 

xned noist 

UTION COMPACT I JOS BOLSTER COMPACT BY JOB SUTION COMPACT JOB SOLUTENCOMPACT ST 

D) -1 

What is the maximum length of character array argv in the above code? 

A) 0 26. Which is the value of "d" after this line of code has been executed? 

double d = Math.round (2.5+math.random()); 

C) 3 

A) 2 

B) 2.5 

D) 4 

Ans: C 

Ans: C 

Note: The Math.random() method returns a number greater than or equal to 0 and less than 1. Since we can then be sure that the sum of that number and 2.5 will be greater than or equal to 2.5 and less than 3.5, we can be sure that Math.round() will round that number to 3. 

27. Which O/S is recommended for real time system? 

A) Windows 

B) Unix 

C) Oracle 

D) None of this Ans: D 

Note: Real time system means that the system is subjected to real time, i.e., response should be guaranteed within a specified timing constraint or system should meet the specified deadline. RT Linux, VRTX and Linux are real time OS. 

28. Compared to CISC and RISC, processors (at the same clock) are 

C) similar D) undefined 

A) Faster 

B) slower 

Ans: A Note: CISC has the capacity to perform multi-step operators or addressing modes within one instruction set. It is the CPU design where one instruction works several low-level acts. For instance, memory storage, loading from memory, and an arithmetic operation. Reduced instruction per computing is a Central Processing Unit design strategy based on the vision that basic instruction set gives a great performance when combined with a microprocessor architecture which has the capacity to perform the instructions by using some microprocessor cycles per instruction. 

29. Which one of the following is not a type of Web search engine? 

A) Computer-created 

C) Hybrid 

B) Human-organized 

D) Portal 

dr-Ans: 

otom 91-93 Ans: B Note: Search engines are classified into the following three categories based on how it works. Crawler based search engines, Human powered directories, Hybrid search engines, Other special search engines. 

30. Where can JavaScript code be placed in an html page? 

A) <head> 

B) <body> 

C) both A and B D) none 

Ans: A 

Note: HTML body section is a main contain section of web page all contain that will be seen when the user loads the webpage. HTML body section supported all the contains such as text, hyper-links, images, Special Character, lists, tables, frames, forms etc. 

31. What is the value of variable x after the following statement is executed in 

JavaScript var x2= "3" + "4" ? 

A) 34 

Note: 

<html> 

<body> 

B) 7 

C) 0 

<h2> JavaScript Variables</h2> 

<p>In this example, x, y, and x are variables. </p> 

<p id="demo"></p> 

<script> 

D) undefine 

Ans: A 

BUD NCT ITS SQUAREN COCTITELUTER COMPUTER COPPACT EXO SOLUTION COMPACT IT TO SOURTON COMPACT IT XOB SOLUTION COPACT TY XBSOLUTEEN COMPAC 

biento 25 

OUTER COMPACT ET JE SOLSTION COMPACT IDQWDCOMPACT ST 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 BOTTI Page | 174 

Question Bank 

BUD ONCT (7200 SOLUTION COMPACTTTELUTION COMPACT IT XI BOUTEN CACTTY 2013 SOUTER COMPACT 17 JOS SOLUTTER COPIA SUDOCTD SUD 

nas novas MCQ 

100 COLLECTA QURD PACE DEADONGID BRENEEND ACT IT 

var x = 5; 

var y = 6; 

var x2 = "3" +"4"; 

A 

Hard & babadoro) 

document.getElementByID("demo").inner HTML = "The value of z is:" + x2; 

</script> 

</body> </html> 

32. In java, which operator is used to create an object? da buscamerasts and 

B) scanf 

A) class Note: Class operator is used to create an object. 

Ans: A 

C) printe 

D) None 

ClassName objName=new ClassName(); 

D) Wireless LAN 

Ans: Note 

33. Distributed Queue Dual Bus is a standard for- 

C) WAN 

A) MAN 

B) LAN Note: Answer is LAN and MAN; Distributed-Queue Dual-Bus (DQDB) is a distributed multiaccess network. Provides access to Local Area Networks or Metropolitan Area Networks. supports connectionless data transfer, connection-oriented data transfer, and isochronous communications, such as voice communications. 

34. Which one is a universal logic gate? 

B) AND 

done and A 

a 

PER TU ! 

C) OR 

D) NOT 

Ans: A 

A) NAND Note: A universal gate is a gate which can implement any Boolean function without need to use any other gate type. The NAND and NOR gates are universal gates. This is advantageous since NAND and NOR gates are economical and easier to fabricate and are the basic gates used in all IC digital logic families. 

35. Domain name to IP address mapping is done by- 

B) Database server 

C) DNS server D) Proxy Server 

Ans: C 

A) Web server Note: Domain Name Server, also called a DNS server or name server, which manages a massive database that maps domain names to IP addresses. Whether you're accessing a website or sending e- mail, your computer uses a DNS server to look up the domain name you're trying to access. 

36. The step by step instruction that solved a problem are called 

A) An algorithm 

B) A list 

ZemC) A plan D) None of the above sal Ans: A Note: An algorithm is a finite sequence of well-defined, computer-implementable instructions, typically to solve a class of problems or to perform a computation. Algorithms are always unambiguous and are used as specifications for performing calculations, data processing, automated reasoning, and other tasks. 

37. Which of the following produce an answer that is closest in value to a double, d, 

while not being greater than d? 

A) (int)Math.min(d) 

C) (int)Math.abs(d) 

B) (int)Math.max(d) 

D) (int)Math.floor(d) 

Hu Ans: D 

Note: The casting to an int is a smokescreen. Use a process of elimination to answer this question: Option D is the correct answer, it is synthetically correct and will consistently return a value less than d. Option A and B are wrong because both the minO and max() methods require 2 arguments whereas here they are passed only one parameter. Option C is wrong because it could return a value greater than d (if d was negative). 

OLUTION COMPACT STXBSOLUTE COMPACT ET JOBBOLUCION COMPACT IT DUTEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COPPICT OSOUND COMPACT IT 

ACT ET JOD SOLUTION COMPACTITE SUPER CACTTY 

MOITUJ02 80CT Page | 175 

Question Bank 

OBEROIDUDONOTO SUBDOROTA 

SOUTEN OOTDRD ONTO UNING 

*nsa nottaeMCQ 

2010- SOLACION COMPACT ES 200 SOLUTION COMPACT ET XS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUSTERCOMPACTn 

Combined 3 Bank Assistant Programmer MCQ Test: 2018 

xboa 

1. If A has 4 elements and B has 8 elements, then the minimum and maximum number 

of elements is AUB respectively? 

B) 8, 12 

C) 4, 12 

D) 6, 12 

A) 4,8 

AND Ans: B Note: Sets A and B are very similar because set A is actually a subset of set B. In other words, all members of set A are present in set B. A={a,b,c), B={a,b,c,d,e,f} 

C=AUB 

={a,b,c}U{a,b,c,d,e,f} 

={a,b,c,d,e,f} 

Here, because A was a subset of B, the cardinality of their union was 6. 

2. If for a square matrix A, A2-A then such a matrix known as- 

A) Idempotent matrix 

C) Null Matrix 

B) Orthogonal Matrix 

D) Identity matrix 

downe 

erine & ai ono dain / E 

N CMAX (Ans: A 

Note: In linear algebra, an idempotent matrix is a matrix which, when multiplied by itself, yields itself. That is, the matrix M is idempotent if and only if MM = M. For this product MM to be defined, M must necessarily be a square matrix. 

3. The time complexity of binary search is 

B) quadratic 

A) constant Note: Time complexity of Binary search algorithm is O (log n) 

C) exponent 

D) logarithmic 

Ans: D 

OW 

4. How many bits string of length 4 bit possible such that they contain 2 ones and 2 

zeros? A) 4 

4! 

Note: = 6 

2! 2! 

B) 2 

576 

B) 13 

C) 5 

C) 15 

mmub aque 

D) 6 

Ans: D 

di nabordeni qute de 

deni gole yo qale sdf 68 5,8,11,14,17,20, ........,50 IMA 

D) 16 

Ans: D 

5. In the given AP series find the number of items 

A) 11 Note: nth term = first_term + (number_of_terms - 1) common_differnce., 50 = 5 + (n-1)3, n=16. 6. For some base r, the digits which are allowed in its representation are? 

A) Digit from 1 to r 

C) Digit from 1 to r-1 

B) Digit from 0 to r-1 D) Digit form 0 to r 

carolus go 

Ans: B 

Note: A base r number may contain digits from 0 to r-1. 

7. RPC provides a(an) 

procedure. 

A) stub 

on the client side, a separate one for each remote 

B) identifier C) name i 

D) process identifier Mom Ans: A 

Note: A stub in distributed computing is a piece of code that converts parameters passed between client and server during a remote procedure call (RPC). 

8. What is long term scheduling? 

A) It selects which process has to be brought into the ready queue 

B) It selects which process has to be executed next and allocates CPU 

COMPACT ET 2018 SOLLUTZEN COMPACTTY SOLUTION COMPACT IT OR SOLUTION COMPACT IT DOS BELUSTER CODERCE IS CLUSTER COMPACT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB SOLATION COMPACT IT JOB 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DOACT 

PACT ET JOB SOW 

COMPACT IT 

MOITUJO2 800T Page | 176 

Question Bank 

SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT TO SUTION COMPACT ET KOLUTE COMPACT IT IN LATER COMPACT IT IN SOLUT 

dusă noites MCQ 

COMPACTEDOBOMPACT ST 200 SOLUTION COMPACT DO BURDCOMPACT IT 

C) It selects which process to remove from memory by swapping 

D) It selects which process needs to be killed next 

Ans: A 

Note: It is also called a job scheduler. A long-term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to the system for processing. It selects processes from the queue and loads them into memory for execution. Process loads into the memory for CPU scheduling. 

Domain of a function is- 

A) the maximal set of numbers for which function is defined 

B) the maximal set of numbers which a function can take value. 

C) it is the set of natural numbers for which a function is defined D) Any set of positive number 

leni od asdbiol Ans: A 

Note: In mathematics, the domain of definition (or simply the domain) of a function is the set of "input" or argument values for which the function is defined. That is, the function provides an "output" or value for each member of the domain. 

10. The Ex-OR of this string 01010101 with 11111111 is 

A) 10101010 

B) 00110100 

C) 01010101 D) 10101001 

Ans: A 

Note: XOR gate is a digital logic gate that gives a true output when the number of true inputs is odd. An XOR gate implements an exclusive or; that is, a true output results if one, and only one, of the inputs to the gate is true. If both inputs are false or both are true, a false output result. 

A 

B 

AOB 

01010101 ad lon 

11111111 

10101010 

Synb bon a flower use 

11. An algorithm which is use previous step for calculation- 

A) Brute force 

C) Dynamic programming 

DB) divide and conquerque lo bedue sdt er 

D) All the above 

Ans: C 

Note: Dynamic Programming is a method for solving complex problem by breaking it down into a collection of simpler subproblems, solving each of those subproblems just once, and storing their solutions using a memory-based data structure (array, map, etc). 

12. Which of the keywords can be used in a subclass to call the constructor of 

superclass? 

B) Extends 

C) Super 

A) Extent 

D) This Ans: C Note: The super keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent class objects. The keyword "super" came into the picture with the concept of Inheritance. 

13. Multi-Threaded programs are- 

A) Lesser prone to deadlocks 

C) not at all prone to deadlock 

B) more prone to deadlocks 

D) always results in deadlocks (2 of Ans: B 

Note: The main purpose of multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time. A multithreaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently. Each such part of a program called thread. 14. Quicksort can be categorized as: 

A) Brute force technique 

C) Greedy algorithm 

8 

B) Divide and conquer 

D) Dynamic programming 

Ans: B 

Note: First you divide(partition) the array based on the pivot element and sort accordingly. 15. The 

clause is used to list the attributes desired in the result of a query. 

STEM COMPACT IT AD SOLATION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT LT JOB LITEON CODEPACT IT 238. SOLLATION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COREPACT ET 200 

MPACT 15 2016 SELUSTER CESSPRCT IT JOB SOLVENCOMPACT ET 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJOS GOL Y Page | 177 

Question Bank 

B) Select 

C) From 

inst noized MCQ 

D) Distinct 

Ans: B 

COMPACT ET XORBOLASTER CEPPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IS JOB SOLUTENED 

A) Where Note: The SELECT statement is used to select data from a database. The data returned is stored in a result table, called the result-set. 

16. When there is a large logical address space, the best way of paging would be 

A) Not to page 

C) not all prone to deadlock 

B) a two-level paging algorithm 

D) all of the above 

Ans: B 

page 

= No. of Page 

Note: Paging is the process in which we convert the entire process in to equal sized pages. Each further consists of a fixed number of words (if it is word addressable). Page Table Size Table Entries (Total no. of Pages) * (size of each entry of page table). 

17. CPU fetches the instruction from memory according to value of- 

A) Program counter 

C) instruction register 

B) status register D) program status word 

Ans: A 

Note: A program counter is a register in a computer processor that contains the address (location) of the instruction being executed at the current time. As each instruction is fetched, the program counter increases its stored value by 1. 

18. What is the mounting of file system? 

A) creating of a file system 

B) deleting a file system 

STRE 107 

Sty ROX 

Ans: C 

C) attaching portion of the file system into a directory structure D) removing portion of the file system into a directory structure Note: Mounting is a process by which the operating system makes files and directories on a storage device (such as hard drive, CD-ROM, or network share) available for users to access via the computer's file system. 

doidy 

19. The subset of super key is a candidate key under what condition? 

A) No proper subset is a super key 

C) Subset is a super key 

nogle nA 11 

O 

B) All subsets are super keys D) Each subset is a super key Ans: A 

navy 

Note: The subset of a set cannot be the same set. Candidate key is a set from a super key which cannot be the whole of the super set. 

20. What is an example of iteration in C? 

A) for 

C) do-while 

D) all of the above 

ved 541 To doid 77 SI 

Creclamag 

Ans: D 

B) while Note: Iteration statements create loops in the program. In other words, it repeats the set of statements until the condition for termination is met. Iteration statements in C are for, while and do-while. 21. What is the time complexity to count the number of elements in the linked list? 

A) O(1) 

D) O(n log n) Note: To count the number of elements, you have to traverse through the entire list, hence complexity is O(n). 

B) O(n) 

C) O(log n) 

Ans: B 

22. CREATE TABLE employee (name VARCHAR, id INTEGER), What type of 

statement is this? 

A) DML 

B) DDL 

C) View 

D) Integrity constraint Ans: B Note: Data Definition language is the language which performs all the operation in defining structure of relation. Any CREATE, DROP and ALTER commands are examples of DDL SQL statements. 23. In SQL, aggregate functions can be used in the select list or the 

select statement or subquery. They cannot be used in a A) Where, having 

COMPACT IT JOB JOLLATION COMPACT IT AND SOLUEEN CONCY IT 208 SELANTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLTER COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2-3 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2018! 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

clause. 

clause of a 

HOLSTEN COMPACT IN 2018 BELAJTER CONSPACE IT AS 

B) Having, where 

MOITUJOS BOL TIPage | 178 

Question Bank 

SEN COMPACT TYD SUFEROMPACTTY JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT IT 108 

LUISTER COMPACT IT JOB SQLUTEN COMPACT IT 100 SFALTEN COMPOTBOWIT 

D) Group by, Where 

C) Group by, Having 

Anna nolentMCQ 

DSWDOOMPACT ST 

Ans: B 

Note: To include aggregate functions having clause must be included after where. 24. The data structure required to check whether an expression contains balanced 

parenthesis is- A) Stack 

B) Queue 

C) Array 

D) Tree Ans: A Note: The stack is a simple data structure in which elements are added and removed based on the LIFO principle. Open parenthesis is pushed into the stack and a closed parenthesis pops out elements till the top element of the stack is its corresponding open parenthesis. If the stack is empty, parenthesis is balanced otherwise it is unbalanced. 

25. Which of the following is false about a binary search tree? 

A) The left child is always lesser than its parent 

B) The right child is always greater than its parent 

C) The left and right subtrees should also be binary search trees D) In order sequence gives decreasing order of elements 

Ans: D 

Note: In order sequence of binary search trees will always give ascending order of elements. Remaining all are true regarding binary search trees. 

26. Which of the following is a valid declaration of an object of class Box? 

A) Box obj = new Box(); 

C) obj = new Box(); 

B) Box obj = new Box; D) new Box obj; 

Note: Creating an object in java:Class_name Object_name=new Class_name(); 

Ans: A 

27. What is the process of defining two or more methods within the same class that have 

same name but different parameters declaration? A) Method overriding 

C) Method hiding 

river dr 

B) Method overloading D) Method duplicating 

Ans: B 

Note: Two or more methods can have same name as long as their parameters declaration is different, the methods are said to be overloaded and process is called method overloading. Method overloading is a way by which Java implements polymorphism. Example of method overloading is- int add 

(int a, int b); 

int add (int a, int b, int c); 

28. Which of the following sends data packets over unprotected system? 

B) NAT 

C) TCP 

D) UDP 

Ans: D 

A) OSL Note: UDP stands for User Datagram Protocol- a datagram is the same thing as a packet of information. The UDP protocol works similarly to TCP, but it throws all the error-checking stuff out. All the back-and-forth communication and deliverability guarantees slow things down. 29. The main program in an operating system is called: 

B) file manager 

C) Directory 

D) NOS 

Ans: A 

A) kernel Note: Each computer system includes a basic set of programs called the operating system. The most important program in the set is called the kernel. 

30. Which of the following format is a correct format for declaration of function? 

A) return-type function-name (argument type); 

B) return-type function-name (argument type) {} C) return-type (argument type) function-name; D) return-type {} function-name 

Ans: A 

SIDEWE OPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN CEPACT IT BOLATION COMPACT STX SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACTITUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLAREON COMPACT! 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

BUED COMPACT IT 

M 

Page | 179 

goQuestion Bank 

Nned noites MCQ 

AVER SPORT&DANGANETA DAMEN COMPOSTEXMALAIN COPACT 230 COUNTER COMPACT ET 2018 BOLSTER COM 

Note: In C and C++, functions must be declared before they are used. You can declare a function by providing its return value, name, and the types for its arguments. The names of the arguments are optional. 

31. What are the final values of a and c in the following C statement? 

(initialize value a=2, c=1) c=c? c=2: a=0; 

A) a=0, c=0 

B) a=2, c=2 

C) a=2, c=2 

D) a=1, c=2 

Ans: B 

Note: The "?:" operator is just like an if ... else statement except that because it is an operator you can use it within expressions. "?:" is a ternary operator in that it takes three values, this is the only ternary operator C has. "?:" takes the following form: 

if condition is true ? then X return value : otherwise Y value; 32. Which of the following doesn't require an '&' for the input in scanf()? 

A) char name [10]; 

C) float name[10]; 

B) int name [10]; 

D) double name [10]; 

Ans: A 

Note: '&' is used to get the address of the variable. C does not have a string type; String is just an array of characters and an array variable stores the address of the first index location. 

By default, the variable itself points to the base address and therefore to access base address of string, there is no need of adding an extra '&'. 

33. In the 

normal form, a composite attribute is converted to individual 

attributes. A) First 

B) Second 

C) Third 

D) Fourth 

Note: The first normal form is used to eliminate the duplicate information. 34. A graph having an edge from each vertex to every other vertex is called: 

grobit borboIZI Lodein Shore to 07T 1970 

Ans: A 

ng and H 

A) Tightly connected 

C) Weakly connected 

B) Strongly connected D) Loosely connected Note: This is a part of the nomenclature followed in Graph Theory. 35. Pushing an element into stack already having five elements and stack size of 5 then 

stack becomes- 

A 

Ans: A 

A) Overflow 

B) Crash 

C) Underflow 

D) User flow 

Ans: A 

Note: The stack is filled with 5 elements and pushing one more element causes a stack overflow. This results in overwriting memory, code and loss of unsaved work on the computer. 36. When the linear search used? 

The A) When the list has only few elements. 

120 (5 

10 Tolisanom 

B) When performing a single search in an unordered list to boot-tits-dod str C) Used all the time 

D) When the list has only a few elements and when performing a single search in an unordered list 

Ans: D 

Note: It is practical to implement linear search in the situations mentioned in When the list has only a few elements and When performing a single search in an unordered list, but for larger elements the complexity becomes larger and it makes sense to sort the list and employ binary search or hashing. 

QUDDPACT ET JOB SEVEN ACT IT) AUTEN CO 

LUTEN COMPACT TY XJ SOUTEN OPACT STS 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 800 T Page | 180 

Question Bank 

BLATER GREATNES ROLATER CONNACT ET 2018 SCHLUTER (DEVACY IF AS KLATEN COMPACT IT IN SECUTION CEPACT ( ES FLUTE COO 

Probashi Kallyan Bank 

Assistant Programmer Preliminary Exam: 2018 

anal notes MCQ 

1. Which protocol can cause overload on a CPU of a managed device? 

B) WCCP C) IP SLA 

D) SNMP 

OPPACT 1 108 SOLUTION CERNICI E 38 ESATERCOMPACT IT 

A) Net flow 

Ans: D Note: Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is an Internet Standard protocol for collecting and organizing information about managed devices on IP networks and for modifying that information to change device behavior. Devices that typically support SNMP include cable modems, routers, switches, servers, workstations, printers, and more. 

2. Which type of cable is used to connect the COM port of a host to the COM port of a 

router or switch? 

A) Crossover 

C) Rolled 

B) Straight through 

D) Shield twisted pair SNMP 

Ans: C 

Note: A cable must be used to plug the laptop into the power strip so that it can be charged. A serial port which is used to transfer information from the computer to another source. It is a main cable that is easy to recognize. There may be a time when a cable is needed to connect the COM port of a host to the COM port of a router or switch. This cable is known as the rollover cable. 

3. Which of the following is a group of one or more attributes that uniquely identifies a 

row? 

B) Determinant 

C) Tuple 

D) Relation 

A) Key 

Ans: A Note: A database key is an attribute utilized to sort and/or identify data in some manner. Each table has a primary key which uniquely identifies records. Foreign keys are utilized to cross-reference data between relational tables. 

4. The SQL statement that requires or reads data from the table is- 

B) Read 

C) Query 

D) None of the above 

Ans: A 

A) Select Note: SELECT statement returns a result set of records from one or more tables. A SELECT statement retrieves zero or more rows from one or more database tables or database views. SELECT is the most commonly used data query language (DQL) command. 

5. Which of the following protocol used TCP and UDP ports? 

A) FTP 

B) SMTP 

C) Telnet 

D) DNS 

Ans: D 

Note: DNS uses TCP for zone exchanges between servers and UDP when a client is trying to resolve a hostname to an IP address. DNS can use either the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) or Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) with a destination port of 53. 

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is specified for mail transport and used TCP port 25. Telnet used TCP on port 23. 

File Transfer Protocol (FTP) uses TCP on port 20, 21. 

Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) uses UDP on port 69. 

HTTP Secure (HTTPS) uses TCP on port 443. 

6. Two dimensional arrays are also called? 

A) table array 

C) both A and B 

B) matrix array 

D) none of the above 

Note: Two-dimensional array are also sometimes called metric and table array. 

Ans: C 

EXPECT II 200 KAARTEN COMPACT SOLLTEN COMPACT BY BOLASTERN COMPACT IT IS SOLLTEN COMPACT TORSOLUTE COMPACT TT 3D SOLUUTER COMPACT IT DEB SOLUTION COMPACTT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

INTERCOMPACT IT 

BOLT Page | 181 

Question Bank 

nsä noita MCQ 

7. Which of the following protocol is an SQL trigger support by oracle? 

D) All of the above 

B) Instead of C) After 

A) Before 

Ans: D Note: In a DBMS, a trigger is a SQL procedure that initiates an action (i.e., fires an action) when an event (INSERT, DELETE or UPDATE) occurs. Stored procedures are explicitly executed by invoking a CALL to the procedure while triggers are implicitly executed. In addition, triggers can also execute stored procedures. 

8. K iteration by Newton-Raphson of a following square root of a number increases 

accuracy in number of digits? 

A) k 

B) 2k 

C) 3k 

D) 4k 

Ans: B Note: Newton's method (also known as the Newton-Raphson method), named after Isaac Newton and Joseph Raphson, is a method for finding successively better approximations to the roots (or zeros) of a real-valued function. It is one example of a root-finding algorithm. 

9. An algorithm that calls itself directly or indirectly is known as? 

A) Sub Algorithm 

C) Polish Notation 

B) Recursion 

D) Traversal algorithm 

Ans: B 

Note: The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion and the corresponding function is called as recursive function. Using recursive algorithm, certain problems can be solved quite easily. 

10. Bubble sort algorithm sorts n data items using? 

A) O (n2) Comparisons 

C) O(n log n) Comparisons 

Note: Different algorithms complexity is: 

Algorithms 

Selection Sort 

B) O(n) Comparisons D) O(n) Comparisons 

oh sa to doin 

Ans: A 

Best 

Average 

Worst 

1970 

Ω(13) 

0(n2) 

O(n2) 

Bubble Sort 

Ω(π) 

0(n2) 

O(n2) 

Insertion Sort 

Ω(1) 

0(n2) 

O(n2) 

A 

Heap Sort 

(n log(n)) 

→ (n log(n)) 

O(n log(n)) 

Quick Sort 

N (n log(n)) 

→ (n log(n)) 

Merge Sort 

2 (n log(n)) 

0 (n log(n)) 

Bucket Sort 

Radix Sort 

N(n+k) Ω(nk) 

0(n+k) 0(nk) 

O(n2) 

O (n log(n)) O(n2) O(nk) do 

11. For every relationship, how many possible sets of minimum cardinalities are there? 

A) Two 

B) Three 

C) Four 

D) Six 

Note: Minimum number of entity instances that must participle in a relation. 12. Which Control statement can be executed at least once? 

A) While 

B) For 

C) do-while D) None of the above 

Ans: C 

Ans: C 

Note: In the do-while loop, the body of a loop is always executed at least once. After the body is executed, then it checks the condition. If the condition is true, then it will again execute the body of a loop otherwise control is transferred out of the loop. 

while (boolean condition) { 

loop statements... 

} 

do { 

statements... 

}: 

while (condition); 

SOLUTION COMPACT 3 IN BOUTER COMPACT ET EDELSTEN COMPIDOUARDRATE SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT E XE 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

dod 

WHEN COMPACT XS SOLTERONT WOMPACT ST 

MOITUJ02 800 Page | 182 

T 

Question Bank 

13. Two main measures for the efficiency of an algorithm are? 

anet nouse MCQ 

B) complexity and capacity D) Data and space 

OYAQUB ONDT ST 

Ans: C 

A) Processor and memory C) Time and space Note: The complexity of an algorithm is a function describing the efficiency of the algorithm in terms of the amount of data the algorithm must process. Usually there are natural units for the domain and range of this function. There are two main complexity measures of the efficiency of an algorithm: Time complexity and Space complexity. 

14. The complexity of binary search is- 

A) O(n) B) O (log n) 

C) O(n2) 

D) O(n long n) 

Ans: B 

Note: Binary tree is a divide and conquer system. Complexity of binary search depends on, how many times can you divide N by 2 until you have 1. 

15. The smallest element of array index is called it- 

A) Lower Bound B) Upper Bound C) Range Note: The smallest element of array index is called Lower Bound. 16. Which one of the following is not a valid identifier? 

A)_compact 

Note: 

B) compact 

D) Extraction 

Ans: A 

C) com-pact 

D) com_pact 

Ans: C 

It must start with either underscore or any of the characters from the ranges ['a', 'z'] and ['A', 'Z']. 

There must not be any white space in the string. 

And, all the subsequent characters after the first character must not consist of any special characters like $, #, % etc. 

17. Consider the following code 

#include<stdio.h> 

int main (int argc, char *argv[]) { 

return 0; 

} 

What is the maximum length of character array argv in the above code? 

B) 1 

C) Undefined 

Ans: C 

A) 0 

D) -1 Note: argv is an array of pointers to char (i.e. array of strings). The length of this array stored in argv argument. 

18. Which is the value of "d" after this line of code has been executed? 

double d=Math. round (2.5+Math.random()); 

A) 2 

B) 2.5 

C) 3 

( 

Note: [Combined Bank, Maintenance Engineer-2018, Q-26]. 

is 

D) 4 

Ans: C 

19. Which of the following correctly shows the hierarchy of algorithm operation in C? 

A)/+* - 

B) * -/+ 

C) +- /* 

Note: [Combined Bank, Maintenance Engineer-2018, Q-24]. 

D) /*+- 

20. Which of the following TCP/IP address constitute the loopback address? 

A) 1.1.1.1 

B) 255.255.255.255 C) 127.0.0.0 D) 127.0.0.1 

Ans: D 

Ans: D 

Note: An address that sends outgoing signals back to the same computer for testing. In a TCP/IP network, the loopback IP address is 127.0.0.1, and pinging this address will always return a reply in less the firewall prevents it. 

21. Which of the following produce an answer that is closest in value to a double, d, 

while not being greater than d? 

GELAUFERS COMPACT TO COMPACT ET BOARTER COMPACT ET JE SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SELITEN CONVACT IT 230 SOLUTION COMPACT ITE BUD 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

OLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJO2 SOLTI Page | 183 

Question Bank 

CORCED BUDGET TO SUTER COMPACT E JO SOLUTION COMPACT EX 

A) (int.Math.min(d)) 

C) int.Math.abs(d)) 

B) (int.Math.max(d)) 

D) (int).Math.floor(d)) 

Note: [Combined Bank, Maintenance Engineer- 2018, Q. 37] 

22. Which keyword must be used to inherit class in java? 

A) extends 

B) super 

C) this 

Ans& nobes MCQ 

SOLLITION COMPACT ET JOB BOLASTEN COMPACT BY JOB BOLLSTEEN COMPACT IT 208 BOLUSTERCOMPACT 17 

confAns: D 

D) extend Sastorns Ans: A 

Note: extends is the keyword used to inherit the properties of a class. Following is the syntax of extends keyword. 

class Super { 

} 

class Sub extends Super { 

Lino owed (A 

} 

23. Which of the following is the destructor for class "vehicle"? 1 to 300 oldal 

A) *vehicle( 

B) *vehicle (int value) 

D) ~vehicle (int value) 

C) ~vehicle 

Ans: C Note: A destructor is a special member function that works just opposite to constructor, unlike constructors that are used for initializing an object, Destructor is a member function which destructs or deletes an object. Similar to constructor, the destructor name should exactly match with the class name. 24. A class that is inherited in java is called a 

A) sub class 

B) super class C) state class D) implement class 

odrzi 

Ans: B 

Note: Super Class: The class whose features are inherited is known as super class (or a base class or a parent class). Sub Class: The class that inherits the other class is known as sub class (or a derived class, extended class, or child class). The subclass can add its own fields and methods in addition to the superclass fields and methods. 25. Which one of these interfaces is implemented by 

A) Set 

C) Runnable Note: java.lang.Runnable is an interface that is to be implemented by a class whose instances are intended to be executed by a thread. There are two ways to start a new Thread - Subclass Thread and implement Runnable. There is no need of subclassing Thread when a task can be done by overriding only run () method of Runnable. 

boldgob 

B) Connections 

thread class? 

D) None of above 

26. Which one is less costly for insertion at a particular position? 

B) Queue 

C) Link List 

D) Stack 

ind W 

Ans: C 

Ans: C 

A) Array Note: Both Arrays and Linked List can be used to store linear data of similar types, but they both have some advantages and disadvantages over each other. 

27. Register circuit is not use in- 

A) Digital clocks 

B) Components 

C) RAM 

D) Amplifier 

Ans: D 

Note: A register is defined as the group of flip-flops suitable for storing binary information. Each flip- flop is a binary cell capable of storing one bit of information. The data in a register can be transferred from one flip-flop to another. 

28. Which one is a universal logic gate? 

A) NAND 

B) AND 

(C) OR 20 D) NOT ell 

ORD) allel 

Ans: A 

0126 20 

THEN COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTTERCOMPACT T 

COMPACT ET 23B BOLLITEN COMPACTTY JSON CEPACT IT IS SELUTEN COPPICTET 2018 EASTERN COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLAATTION COMPACT) BUTION OPACT IT XILBOLISTIO 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITOJO2 8OLT Page | 184 

So Question Bank 

Aas noites MCQ 

CT IT JED LATEN COMPACT ST JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOBSTER CEDSPACE IT XS STARTER COMPACT ET EN SELAREN-CEROPACT 17 200 BEAUTER (DPPICY TY XS SOLARES COPPICTED DENOTED SOUTER COMPACT IS EEN KLASTERCOMPACT IT 

Note: A universal gate is a gate which can implement any Boolean function without need to use any other gate type. The NAND and NOR gates are universal gates. 

29. Which data structure required evaluating a postfix expression is? 

A) Queue 

B) Stackpott C) Link List 

D) Array 

Ans: B 

Note: The Stack data structure is used to convert infix expression to postfix expression. The purpose of stack is to reverse the order of the operators in the expression. 

30. Which of the declaration is correct? 

A) int length 

B) char int 

C) int long 

D) float double 

Ans: A Note: int length; denotes that variable length is int(integer) data type. char int; here int is a keyword cannot be used a variable name.int long; here long is a keyword cannot be used a variable name. float double; here double is a keyword cannot be used a variable name. 

31. In java, which operator is used to create an object? 

A) class 

B) scanf C) print body D) None of above Note: Class operator is used to create an object. 

und / Ans: D 

athan D) 0 

Ans: A 

ClassName objName=new ClassName(); 32. Which operator that can be overloaded is? 

A) ++ 

B) :: zb C). (dot) Note: Some of the operators cannot be overloaded. These operators are like below: "." Member access or dot operator, "?: "Ternary or conditional operator, ":" Scope resolution operator, ".*" Pointer to member operator, "sizeof" The object size operator, "typeid" Object type operator. 33. How many instances of an abstract can be created? 

A) 0 

B) 1 

C) 2 

D) 13 

Ans: A 

Note: Abstract class not allowed creating an Instance (Object). So, we cannot create any instance then answer is 0. 

34. Which of the following cannot be checked in a switch-case statement? 

A) Character 

B) Integer 

C) Float 

D) None of above 

Ans: C 

Note: The switch/case statement in the C language is defined by the language specification to use an int value, so you cannot use a float value. 

35. Which of the following is a design pattern? 

A) List 

B) Queue 

C) Factory D) All of above 

Ans: C 

Note: Design Pattern is Abstract Factory, Builder, Factory Method, Object Pool, Prototype and Singleton. 

36. The main thread of cloud-based provisioning is-? 

A) Cost 

B) Security C) Visualization Note: The main thread of cloud-based provisioning is Security. 37. Link List can be implemented by using? 

D) All of above 

Rated Ans: B 

Ans: C 

A) Array 

B) Pointer C) Both A and B D) None of above Note: The list is not required to be contiguously present in the memory. The node can reside anywhere in the memory and linked together to make a list. This achieves optimized utilization of space. List size is limited to the memory size and doesn't need to be declared in advance. Empty node cannot be present in the linked list. We can store values of primitive types or objects in the singly linked list. 

38. Which following data structure is linear type? 

A) Strings 

B) Lists 

C) Queue 

PACT IT 203 BOLUCION COMPACT IT JOBBOLTON COMPACT ST JOS BOLLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 238 SELUSTER COMPACT IT JUSSELLATION COREPACT ET JOB SOLISTEDIN COMPACT ST 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

D) All of above 

OLUTION COMPACT IT IS SCLEON 

Ans: D 

OUTER COMPACT JOS SOUTEN COMPACT ET XL SOUTER COMPACT IT 

Mondo act a Page | 185 

Question Bank 

Note: Arrays, Linked Lists, Stack, Queue, any type of List all are linear. 

anca poder MCQ 

SOUTEN COMPACT ST 200 BOLAYER CEPACT BY 100 SOLUTENCOMPACT TY 

39. In java, which one will be used for comprising whether the two String object str1 

and str2 are same? 

A) strl=str2 

C) strl=str2 

B) strl.equalsIgnoreCase(str2) 

D) All of above 

Ans: B 

Note: equalsIgnoreCase() method compares two strings irrespective of the case (lower or upper) of the string. 

Sonali and Janata Bank 

dopnoi di colo 

Assistant Programmer Preliminary Exam: 2018 

Inogo dold was at t 

1. Who invented QWERTY keyboard? 

A) Steve jobs 

C) Brain Sams 

B) Christopher Latham Sholes vous inqo zadosto D) Anderson Palimar 

Ans: B Note: The arrangement of characters on a QWERTY keyboard was designed in 1868 by Christopher Sholes, the inventor of the typewriter. According to popular myth, Sholes arranged the keys in their odd fashion to prevent jamming on mechanical typewriters by separating commonly used letter combinations. 

2. Which one of the following is the reason for "Cyberchondria"? 

A) excessive typing 

B) watching for long hour D) radiation 

C) excessive anxiety due to online search 

Ans: C Note: Cyberchondria is the unsubstantiated escalation of a patient's concern about health, based on their personal online research and websites' information about illnesses. The word comes from a combination of cyber-, to indicate technology, and -chondriac, from hypochondriac, which is an anxiety from believing you have a serious illness without having your symptoms diagnosed by a doctor. 

3. Which one is not an example of disruptive technology? 

A) 3D printing 

C) Robotics 

B) Internet of things D) Executive dashboard 

valist 

Ans: D 

Note: An Executive Dashboard is a reporting tool that provides a visual display of organizational KPIs, metrics, and data. The objective of executive dashboards is to give CEOs an at-a-glance visibility into business performance across all units and projects. 

4. Cloud computing is 

A) poor 

B) rigid 

option for small firms. 

C) rental 

D) expensive 

Hot Ans: D 

Note: Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage (cloud storage) and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet. 

5. Which are not performance characteristics of hard disk? 

A) data transfer time 

C) power consumption 

B) response time D) shelf life 

Note: Some important characteristics of the hard disk are as follows: 

MPACT 17 BEWO 

Ans: D 

Atch gniwelle) dold 

B 

The hard disk provides a large storage capacity. The capacity of a personal computer hard disk is from 160 GB to 2TB and more. 

DEPICT IT ID SECUTION CONDUCT ET XD SOLUTION COMPACT TY XAREN COPOPVICT ET XO SOLUTION CONVICT IT IS SELU 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

BEAUTER COMPACT TS 18 BOLSTER COMPACT I 20 TERCEROPACT ST 

MOITUJ02 800 TX Page | 186 

Question Bank 

And noka MCQ 

CTE ES ELLAZER COMPACT TY 2013 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLASTER COMPACT EI XOM SOLUTIEN CEROPVICT 17 JOB SOLARTEIN-CEMPACT IT IS SURER COMPACTESQUE COMPACTE BELIZER COPPICYTE IS SUITES COPAC T 131 

It is much faster than the floppy disk. 

It is the primary media for storing data and programs. 

It is more reliable than a floppy disk. 

Data stored on the hard disk is safer than the floppy disk. 

6. Extranet allows- 

SOUNDCOPACY TY 

A) insiders only 

C) all outside 

B) authorized outsides only 

D) both inside and authentic outsides 

Wiki Ans: D 

Note: An extranet is a controlled private network that allows access to partners, vendors and suppliers or an authorized set of customers. 

7. Which part of a class is invoked when an object is initialized in java? 

B) fields 

C) methods 

D) class 

Ans: A 

A) constructor Note: The object memory is allocated, the field variables with initial values are initialized, and then the constructor is called, but its code is executed after the constructor code of the object super class. 8. What is the binary of (68)10? 

A) 01000100 

B) 10000100 C) 00100100 D) 00010100 

Ans: A 

Note: 

26 

25 

24 

23 

22 

21 

20 

64 

32 

16 

8 

4 

2 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

Because, 64+4 = 68. So, Binary of 68 is 1000100. 

9. Which one of the following is not required in a game engine? 

B) audio 

C) physics D) closure 

Ans: D 

A) rendering Note: The core functionality typically provided by a game engine includes a rendering engine ("renderer") for 2D or 3D graphics, a physics engine or collision detection (and collision response), sound, scripting, animation, artificial intelligence, networking, streaming, memory management, threading, localization support. 

10. Which of the following is spreadsheet software? 

D) Power Point 

Ans: B 

A) Adobe Acrobat B) MS Excel C) Fax Pro Note: Microsoft Excel is the most popular and widely used spreadsheet program. Some example of spreadsheet software: Apache OpenOffice Calc, LibreOffice Calc, Calligra Sheets, Corel Quattro Pro (WordPerfect Office), Kingsoft Spreadsheets., NeoOffice. 

11. Why do we need to normalize a database? 

A) To remove redundancy 

C) To make database secure 

B) To make data meaningful 

751 

D) To make database consistency 

Ans: A 

Note: The reason you normalize a database is to minimize the amount of storage space you need to save the data, as well as make the database easier to maintain. 12. Physical connection between Microprocessor Memory and other parts is called- 

A) Address bus B) Data Bus C) path 

D) Hub 

Ans: A 

Note: An address bus is a computer bus that is used to specify a physical address. When a processor or DMA-enabled device needs to read or write to a memory location, it specifies that memory location on the address bus. The width of the address bus determines the amount of memory a system can address. 

DERCOPACT IT 

MOIT 

02 800 Page | 187 

GENPACT IT AND BOLASTEN CODOPACT IT 2018 EARN CORPACT IT JOB SOLATION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLATION COPACT ET JOB SOLLTEN COMPACTLY JOBBOLARION-COMPACT IT JOB SOLARTEN CEPPACT ET ES 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Question Bank 

Hass noises MCQ 

MPACTTY ZE SOANTEN CONURECT IT IS SOLVER COMPACTIT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT XIS BOLSTER COMPACT ET EN SOUTER COMPACT IS ION SOLUTION COMPACT TO 358 IELUJEN (ODURACY IT IS BAISTEN COMPACT IN A SOLUTION COMPACT IT XD SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOUTERCOMPACT ST 

13. DFD stands for- 

A) data file disk 

C) disk flat database 

B) data flow diagram 

D) disk file database 

Ans: B 

Note: Data-flow diagrams (DFD) quickly became a popular way to visualize the major steps and data involved in software-system processes. DFDs were usually used to show data flow in a computer system, although they could in theory be applied to business process modeling. 14. Which of the following is not antivirus software? 

A) Win-pro B) AVG C) McAfee 

ng bar D) 

D) Symantec pen Ans: A Note: Antivirus software also known as anti-malware, is a computer program used to prevent, detect, and remove malware. Antivirus software was originally developed to detect and remove computer viruses, hence the name. Name of some Antivirus software is: Avast, Norton, McAfee, Eset, AVG etc. 15. 1(one) nibble equal to— 

B) 2-bit 

C) 4-bit 

D) 8-bit 

Ans: C 

A) 1 but Note: [Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), Assistant Junior Engineer (IT): 2019, Q. 14] 16. int number[] = {10,20,30,40,50); number [3] =? 

B) 20 

C) 30 

D) 40 

001000101A 

Ans: D 

A) 10 Note: Array elements are accessed by using an integer index. Array index starts with 0 and goes till size of array minus 1. 

Investment Corporation of Bangladesh 

Assistant Programmer Preliminary Exam: 2017 

To ano dulify 

5000 ST $star 

1. Which of the following protocols uses both TCP and UDP ports? wo 

B) Telnet 

A) SMTP Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 6] 2. Two dimensional arrays are also called 

C) FTP 

D) DNS 

Ans: D 

hwollut on to doid/ .01 21 (8 andor/ sdobAIA 

A) tables arrays 

C) both A and B 

B) matrix arrays 

D) None of the above 

Ans: C 

Note: A 2D array has a type such as int [][] or string [][], with two pairs of square brackets. The elements of a 2D array are arranged in rows and columns, and the new operator for 2D arrays specifies both the number of rows and the number of columns. 

3. Which of the following is an SQL trigger supported by Oracle? 

B) INSTEAD OF 

C) After 

A) BEFORE Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 08] 4. The complexity of Binary search algorithm is- 

C) O (n2) 

D) All the above Ans: D 

D) O(n log n) wD) O (n log n) 

A) O(n) 

B) O (log n) 

Ans: B Note: Complexities like O(1) and O(n) are simple to understand. O(1) means it requires constant time to perform operations like to reach an element in constant time as in case of dictionary and O(n) means; it depends on the value of n to perform operations such as searching an element in an array of n elements. And for Binary Search Algorithm whose complexity is O(log n). 

5. The smallest element of an array's index is called its- 

A) Lower Bound 

B) Upper Bound 

C) Range 

GRAND OUTER COPACTTY JOB SOLAREN CEPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT 230 CLUSTER COMPACT ET 2018 SOLTEN COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET OR SOLUTION COMPACT ST 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

D) Extraction 

Ans: A 

PICT 

208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ISOLATE COMPACT I 200 LATENCOMPACT n 

J08 aot YIPage | 188 

Question Bank 

TEX SOLARTEN COMPACT IT 200 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IN CATER CORTE SERVICESEL 

8 molde MCQ 

COMPACT IT 28 SELUTER CORENCY BF 2010 SOMASTERCOMPACT IT 

Note: An array is a collection of data of the same type. The smallest and the largest indices or subscripts are referred to as the lower bound and the upper bound, respectively. where smaller-integer and larger-integer are the lower bound and the upper bound of the extent. 6. Which one of following is not a valid identifier? 

A)_compact 

B) compact 

C) com-pact 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 17] 

D)_com_pact 

Ans: C 

7. What is the value of 'd' after this line of code has been executed? 

double d=Math.round (2.5+Math.random()); 

A) 2 

B) 2.5 

C) 3 

D) 4 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 19] 

8. Which of the following TCP/IP addresses constitute the loopback address? 

A) 1.1.1.1 

C) 127.0.0.0 

B) 255.255.255.255 D) 127.0.0.1 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 20] he did the 9. Which one is modern lightweight message exchange format? 

B) M 

C) JSON 

so 

D) HTML 

Ans: C 

Ans: D 

Ans: C 

A) XML Note: JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format. It is easy for humans to read and write. It is easy for machines to parse and generate. 

10. Which of the following is the destructor for the class 'Vehicle'? 

A) *Vehicle() 

C) ~Vehicle() 

B) *Vehicle (int value) 

D) ~Vehicle (int value) 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 23] 

11. The only language understood by a digital computer is called- 

A) Assembly Language 

C) Machine Language 

B) High Level Language 

D) None of the above 

Ans: C 

Ans: C 

Note: Sometimes referred to as machine code or object code, machine language is a collection of binary digits or bits that the computer reads and interprets. Machine language is the only language a computer is capable of understanding. 

12. Which of the following name does not relate to stacks? 

B) LIFO list C) Piles 

D) Push-down lists 

dard # 

Ans: A 

A) FIFO list Note: A "stack" is a group or collection of items arranged in order. In stack, the new items added and existing items removed from the same end. LIFO stands for "Last in first out". In this, the element which is in the last place is accessed first. Pile is a stack of objects stacked or thrown together in a heap. A push-down stack is a type in which the item to be removed next is the most recently stored items. 

13. Which keyword must be used to Inherit a class in Java?nats 

B) super 

A) extends 

tonC) This longue D) extent collet od 30 d dad Ans: A Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 22] 

NOT 

14. Which of the following will produce an answer that is closest in value to a double, d, 

while not being greater than d? 

A) (int)Math.mid(d) 

C) (int)Math.abs(d) 

oldieB) (int)Math.max.(d) D) (int)Math.floor(d) 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 21] 

15. A class that is inherited in Java is called a - 

PACT BAS BERUFER COMPACT ST 200 BLATION COMPACT ITS SOLISTEN CONVICT IT JOB BOLLITION COMPACT IT BOLASTEN COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION CEDEPICT IT DEUTER ACTIT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: D 

SEUDOPACT OF XA SOUTEN COMPACTE 

DWDOOMPACT IT 

Page | 189 

Question Bank 

A) Sub class 

C) Static class 

in68 robes MCQ 

SURDH 

SOLUTION OPPATE A COMPACT IF JOB CHARTERIN COMPACT ET 230 SOLASTERN COPOPACT ET 308 SOLUTENENPACT IT 

B) Super class 

D) Implement class 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 24] 16. Which one of these interfaces is implemented by Thread class? 

Ans: A 

To one did 

D) None of the above 400 

Ans: C 

A 

D) none of these-b 

Lekre Ans: D 

A) Set B) Connections C) Runnable Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 24] 

17. Register Circuit is not used in- 

A) Digital clocks 

B) Computers 

C) RAM 

Note: We know that one flip-flop can store one-bit of information. In order to store multiple bits of information, we require multiple flip-flops. The group of flip-flops, which are used to hold store the binary data is known as register. 

18. Which one is a universal logic gate? 

B) AND 

C) OR 

D) NOT 

A) NAND Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 28] 

19. Which one is less costly for insertion operation at a particular position? 

B) queue 

C) link list 

A) Array Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 26] 20. The data structure required to evaluate a postfix expression in- 

Ans: A 

D) stack 

Ans: C 

A) Queue 

B) stack 

C) Array 

D) linked-list 

Ans: B 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 29] 21. Which of the declaration is correct? 

B) char int; C) int long; 

D) float double; 

Ans: A 

A) int length; Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 30] 22. In Java, which operator is used to create an object- 

A) class 

D) None of the above Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 31] 23. The operator that be overloaded is--- 

B) scanf 

B) :: 

C) print 

C) ~ 

D) () 

A) ++ Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 32] 

Ans: A 

610M 

Ans: A 

24. Which type of cable is used to connect the COM port of a host to the COM port of a 

router or switch? 

A) Crossover 

B) Straight-through 

C) Rolled 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018 Q. 02] 25. Which protocol can cause overload on a managed device? 

B) WCCP 

D) none of these 

Ans: C 

douter 

C) IP SLA D) SNMP 

A) Netflow Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 01] 

Ans: D 

26. Which of the following is a group of one or more attributes that uniquely identifies a 

row? 

B) Determinant 

C) Tuple 

D) Relation 

A) Key Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 03] 1982 

alpicAns: A 

27. For every relationship, how many possible sets of minimum cardinalities are there? 

A) Two 

B) Three 

C) Four 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 04] 28. The SQL statement that queries or reads data from a table is 

MARCITY DELUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLATEINUD ONCE IS FOR SOLISTEN CONDUCTES SOUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET SOLUTION COMPRETIT) 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

D) SIX 

PACT ET 208 SOLUSTEN DPACT ET 208 SOLLTEN COMPACT 

Ans: C 

COMPACT IT 

MOITUJOE 800/Page | 190 

Question Bank 

FEN OPPATTI SOUTEN COMPACT IT 200 SOLUTION CONSACT 

A) SELECT 

UTRON COMPACT ET 200 SOLASTEN COMPACT IT KA SAUFEN COMPACT ID 

B) 

READ 

10°C) 

C) QUERY 

*ns noites MCQ 

BRUD COMPACTE ELUTER CORNACE TO OUTERCOMPACT IT 

D) None of the above 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 05] 

29. What is the minimum length of character pointer in the below code? 

A) 4 

char *str= "Hello"; 

printf("%d", strlen (str)); 

B) 5 

C) 2 

D) undefine 

Ans: A 

Ans: B 

Note: The strlen() function calculates the length of a given string. The strlen() function is defined in string.h header file. It doesn't count null character '\0'. 

30. Which control statement can be executed at least once? 

A) While 

B) for 

C) do-while D) All of the above Ans: C 

Team 

B) 2 

C) 1 

D) 3 

Ans: A 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 12] 31. How many instances of an abstract class can be created? 

A) 0 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 33] 

32. An algorithm that calls itself directly or indirectly is known as— 

A) sub algorithm 

C) Polish notation 

6105 MB) Recursion 

D) Traversal algorithm 

Ans: B 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 10] od bages bid u0 33. K iterations by Newton-Raphson method of finding square root of a number 

increases accuracy in number of digits; 

A) K 

B) 2k 

C) +-/* 

C) 3k-Turbonzaistab (D) 4kong and note Ans: B 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 09] endinen cam woll 34. Which of the following correctly shows the hierarchy of arithmetic operations in C? 

A) /+*- B) *-/+ Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 14] 26% JAM 35. Which of the following cannot be checked in a switch-case statement? venid 

B) Integer 

C) Float 

D) /*+- 

A) Character Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 34] 36. Which of the following is a design pattern? 

B) Queue 

C) Factory 

Ans: D 

Ans: C 

D) None of the above 

D) All of the above 

doid / 

Ans: C 

D) All of the above 

betons ondes 

A) List Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 35] 37. The main threat of Cloud based provisioning is: 

A) Cost B) Security 

C) Virtualization 

Note: Top 5 Risks of Cloud Computing: 

Unauthorized access to customer and business data. 

• Security risks at the vendor. Compliance and legal risks. 

Ans: B 

adat 10 embryol 

on docols teen sub zi am goiwellol ani tu dout W 

Risks related to lack of control. Availability risks. 

foxsis 656 bas edungong bod 

38. Link list can be implemented by using? 

A) Array B) Pointers C) both A and B Note: Link list can be implemented by both array and pointers. 39. Which of the following data structure is linear type? 

A) Strings 

B) Lists 

C) Queues 

slustov-noMA 

Desi GeM ISTO 

mee omogud state be 

D) None of the above 

Ans: C 

D) All of the above 

Ans: D 

ONGER DUTEN PICT 

JOB SOLTEONCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJO2 800TI Page | 191 

BRI DEVER PACT IT 200 SOLATION COMPACT TT JOS SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 BOLISTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB CELLATION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Question Bank 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 38] 

Anas nollas MCQ 

40. In Java, which one will be used for comparing whether the two String object strl 

and str2 are same 

910 

A) strl=str2 

C) strl=str2 

B) strl.equalsIgnoreCase(str2) 

D) All of the above 

Ans: B 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 39] 

41. Which data structure allows deleting data elements from front and inserting at 

rear? 

A) Stacks B) Queues 

C) Dequeue D) Binary Search tree lenn02 doud Ans: B 

Note: Linear list of elements in which deletion is done at front side and insertion at rear side is called Queue. In stack we will delete the last entered element first. 

D 

Bangladesh Bank Assistant Director (IT) Preliminary Exam: 2016 

Condizm ynam woll It 

6 anys 21 aleadorij calorí ted and in HA LE 

megle das (A 

1. On which aspect the analog computers are better than digital? 

rettin A) Speed 

B) Accuracy C) Reliability D) Automatic ndell Ans: B Note: Analog computer is a computer which provides us continuous information. Digital computer is a computer which provides us discrete information. 

2. How many numbers could ENIAC store in its internal memory? 

B) 20 

C) 80 

A) 100 

D) 40goffood to do Ans: B Note: ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer) was the world's first general-purpose computer. ENIAC was designed and built for the United States Army to calculate artillery firing tables. 3. Binary circuit elements have 

A) One stable state 

C) Three stable state 

Note: (True | ON | 1) and (False | Off | 0) 

B) two stable state 

D) None of these 

wollol sds to doid 

28 

Ans: B 

izolol odio d 

4. Which of the following is used for manufacturing chips?/1 

A) Control bus 

C) Control unit D) Semiconductor 

with didendo. 

od 

C) Parity unit 

lo labidi niso Ans: D Note: Silicon is almost always used, but various compound semiconductors are used for specialized applications. The entire manufacturing process, from start to packaged chips ready for shipment, takes six to eight weeks and is performed in highly specialized semiconductor fabrication plants, also called foundries or fabs. 

D) Temporary 

5. Which of the following terms is the most closely related to main memory? 

A) Non-volatile B) Permanent C) Control unit 

Ans: D Note: Main memory is where programs and data are kept when the processor is actively using them. When programs and data become active, they are copied from secondary memory into main memory where the processor can interact with them. A copy remains in secondary memory. 

6. The word length of a computer is measured in- 

B) Millimeters 

C) Metes 

A) Bytes 

D) Bits Ans: D Note: The word length of a computer is measured in bits. Most of you would have heard of 32-bit operating systems or 64-bit operating systems of 32 bit/ 64-bit processors. The word length of a 

BRADA QUOD D 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DOTDEELUTION COMPACTTY SOURDONO 

MOITUJOE BOL T Page | 192 

Question Bank 

DIED APPACT VI ER KUNTER COMPACT IN JER BOLARION COMPACT EXOD BOLLSTERN COMPACT 17 ) 

inda novas MCQ 

OIBENERCOMPACT E 

computer is the size of bits processed by its processor at a time. It can also be termed as word size of computer. 

7. Before a disk can be used to store data, it must be- 

13 

B) Reformatted 

C) Addressed 

A) Formatted 

Ans: A D) None Note: Disk storage (also sometimes called drive storage) is a general category of storage mechanisms where data is recorded by various electronic, magnetic, optical, or mechanical changes to a surface layer of one or more rotating disks. A disk drive is a device implementing such a storage mechanism. Notable types are the hard disk drive (HDD) containing a non-removable disk, the floppy disk drive (FDD) and its removable floppy disk, and various optical disc drives (ODD) and associated optical disc media. 

8. Which unit holds data permanently? 

A) Input unit 

C) Output unit 

09 938 wold y 

Silk And 

B) Secondary storage unit 

D) Primary Memory unit 

Ans: B 

Note: Secondary Storage Unit holds data permanently. It is also known as auxiliary memory. It is larger in storage capacity than main memory and can be stored permanently on it. It is slower than main memory. 

9. Magnetic tape can serve as- A) Secondary storage media C) Input media 

cib gribojant B) Output media 

D) All of them 

Ans: D 

Note: Magnetic tape is a medium for magnetic recording, made of a thin, magnetizable coating on a long, narrow strip of plastic film. It was developed in Germany in 1928, based on magnetic wire recording. 

10. Which technology is used in Compact disks? 

D) Laser 

Ans: D 

A) Mechanical B) Electrical C) Electromagnetic Note: Compact Disks are a thin and circular data storage device that uses optical laser technology. A semiconductor laser diode is used from which a beam of laser light is emitted to read and write the information (data or music), when the compact disc rotates on the player. 

11. Which of the following is a storage device? 

D) All of them 

Ans: D 

A) Tape B) Hard Disk C) Floppy Disk Note: There are two types of storage devices used with computers; a primary storage device, such as RAM, and a secondary storage device, like a hard drive. Secondary storage cab be removable, internal, or external storage. 

12. Which of the following is a class of computers based on model? 

A) Digital Computers 

C) Analog Computers 

B) Hybrid Computers D) AT Computers 

Ans: D 

Note: Classification of Computers based on Mode. There are three different models of computers already available - XT computers, AT computers and PS/2 computers. 

13. Central Processing Unit is combination of- 

A) Control Storage 

B) Control and output unit 

C) Arithmetic Logic and Input Unit D) Arithmetic logic and control unit 

Ans: D 

Note: Central processing unit (CPU), principal part of any digital computer system, generally composed of the main memory, control unit, and arithmetic-logic unit. 

14. What does the disk drive of computer do? 

A) Rotate the Disk 

B) Read the disk 

C) Load a program form the disk into the memory D) Both B and C 

SOLUTION COROACE SI JER SELAREN COMPACT ET 208-SCRASTERN COMPACT IT) 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

ABS Ans: D 

BLURRED PACT IT 

MOITU 208 BOL TI Page | 193 

11 

Question Bank 

insa noites MCQ 

Note: A disk drive is a technology that enables the reading, writing, deleting and modifying of data on a computer storage disk. It is either a built-in or external component of a disk that manages the disk's input/output (I/O) operations. 

15. Which of the following produces the best quality graphics reproduction? 

A) Laser printer C) Plotter 

B) Inkjet printer D) Dot matrix printer 

440 

I Lie Ans: C Note: Plotters can work on very large sheets of paper while maintaining high resolution. They can print on a wide variety of flat materials including plywood, aluminum, sheet steel, cardboard, and plastic. Plotters allow the same pattern to be drawn thousands of times without any image degradation. 16. Which of the items below are considered removable storage media? 

B) (Magneto-optical) disk D) All of them 

A) Removable hard disk cartridges C) Flexible disks cartridges 

lugal (A 

Ans: D Note: Removable media is a form of computer storage that is designed to be inserted and removed from a system. Some forms of removable media, such as optical discs, require a reader to be installed in the computer, while others, such as USB flash drives, have all the hardware required to read them built into the device, so only need a driver to be installed in order to communicate with the device. Using removable media poses some risks, including data theft and the introduction of malware. Examples of media that require a reader include: 

Optical discs (Blu-ray discs, DVDs, CDs) 

Memory cards (CompactFlash card, Secure Digital card, Memory Stick) a woman got 

• Zip disks/other Floppy disks 

Disk packs 

Magnetic tapes 

Sedein 75aginu i bez golondos doid(0 

leormerlooM (A 

Paper data storage (punched cards, punched tapes) 

17. Which of the following is not true? 

A) Transistors are much smaller 

Jasinoald (8 

bus rides on ela nagmp) 190 wil buen 20 oboib loes totsubosimor 

o słaby totemolai Follof odd To doid # 11 

B) Transistors produce low heat 

C) Transistors were less reliable 

D) Transistors were used in radios and other electronic devices 

Note: The key advantages of transistor are: 

aq 

No cathode heater 

· 

Very small size and weight, reducing equipment size. 

Ans: C 

10% quebпoose e bras MAR 

squote foarbe 

Low operating voltages compatible with batteries of only a few cells for to doin 

Very low sensitivity to mechanical shock and vibration 

Not susceptible to breakage of a glass envelope, leakage, outgassing and other physical 

damage. 

18. Typical data transfer rates in LAN are of the order of- 

A) Bits per sec 

C) Megabits per sec 

Tugwe 

B) Kilobits per sec 

D) None of them 

oldclava zb 

2 loune? 

Ans: C 

Note: Typical data transfer rate in LAN are of the order of Mega Bits per sec. In LAN the standard transfer speed are 10Mbps, 100Mbps, 1000Mbps and sometimes even, 10000Mbps. 

19. Which was the most popular first-generation computer? 

A) IBM 1650 

B) IBM 360 C) IBM 1130 D) IBM 650 

Job 

Ans: D 

MEMS Note: IBM 650 was the most popular first generation computer. It had four disk storage units. It was a two addressing mode computer which can calculate decimal numbers with ease. The main memory 

COMPACT STROS SOLUTEN OPACITY BURENCONTOURNOIDUD 

JOS SOUTEN COREPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COPPACT IT IS SOLUTION CONNACT EX 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITU 

LIVEN COMPACTOWER CON 1 

02 800 TV Page | 194 

Question Bank 

LARKIN GERONET IARWOONIDEALTEN GERMPACT 17 100 GLUTEN COST EFR CANER DOCT 

Nuc noida MCQ 

TERMOPOT QUIDQUERCOPACT S 

contained magnetic drums. Punch cards were used to give the inputs. It was used in business, science and for experimental purposes. It was relatively less costly and was quite famous worldwide during that time. 

20. The computer code of the interchange of information between terminals is- 

B) BCD 

C) EBCDIC 

A) ASCII 

D) All of them Ans: A Note: ASCII abbreviated from American Standard Code for Information Interchange, is a character encoding standard for electronic communication. ASCII codes represent text in computers, telecommunications equipment, and other devices. Most modern character-encoding schemes are based on ASCII, although they support many additional characters. 

21. What type of device is computer keyboard? 

A) Memory 

B) Output 

C) Storage 

D) Input 

Ans: D 

Note: An input device is a peripheral (piece of computer hardware equipment) used to provide data and control signals to an information processing system such as a computer or other information appliance. Examples of input devices include keyboards, mice, scanners, digital cameras and joysticks. 22. Which of the following is internal memory? 

B) Pen Drives 

C) RAM 

D) CDs 

Ans: C 

A) Disks Note: Internal memory, also called "main or primary memory (RAM)" refers to memory that stores small amounts of data that can be accessed quickly while the computer is running. External memory, also called "secondary memory" refers to a storage device that can retain or store data persistently. 23. Which of the following memories needs refreshing? 

A) SRAM 

B) DRAM C) ROM 

D) All of them Ans: B Note: Refresh negatively impacts DRAM performance and power dissipation. First, the memory controller stalls normal read and write requests to the part of the memory that is being refreshed. Second, refresh operations consume energy because refreshing a DRAM row involves operations such as reading and restoring data. 

24. Which of the following is not a form of data? 

D) None of this Ans: D 

A) Numbers and characters B) images C) sound Note: Data are characteristics or information, usually numerical, that are collected through observation. In a more technical sense, data is a set of values of qualitative or quantitative variables about one or more persons or objects, while a datum is a single value of a single variable. There are multiple types of data. Some of the more common types of data include the following: Single character, Boolean, Text, Number, Picture, Sound, Video. 

25. The control unit of a microprocessor- 

SA) 

A) Stores data in the memory 

C) Performs arithmetic/logic function 

B) accepts input data from keyboard D) None of the above 

Ans: C 

Note: The control unit (CU) is a component of a computer's central processing unit (CPU) that directs the operation of the processor. It tells the computer's memory, arithmetic/logic unit and input and output devices on how to respond to a program's instructions. 

bos isolate of 

GIBRECOPICY IT EA CELUPER COMPACT IMPACT ST JOS BOLSTER COMPACT 17 2018 BOLASTEN CEPACT TOOLATION COMPACT TUTION COMPACT T 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

870 

DEPACT IT 

MOTTUJ02 BOUTI Page | 195 

Question Bank 

Bangladesh Bank Assistant programmer Preliminary Exam: 2016 

1. Which is correct for stack? 

A) FIFO 
B) LIFO 
C) Both A, B 
D) None 

Ans: B 

Note: Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order may be LIFO (Last In First Out) or FILO (First In Last Out). 

2. Which is correct to open new window/tab of browser? 

A) <a href=http://www.example.com target="_blank"> new window/tab</a> B) <a href=http://www.example.com target="blank"> new window/tab</a> 

C) <a href=http://www.example.com target="_blank"new window"> new window</a> D) None 

Note: 

<html> 

<body> 

901 

Ans: A 

niwallel sito dald' 

<a href="https://www.compactit.com/" target="_blank">COMPACT_IT</a> 

</body> 

</html> 

3. Which is correct? 

sit to Hold WEL MARZIA 

A) <body color="yello"> 

C) <body background> yellow<body> 

B) <body bgcolor= 'yello'> D) <body background= 'yellow'> Ans: B 

Note: The HTML bgcolor attribute is used to set the background color of an HTML element. Bgcolor is one of those attributes that has become deprecated with the implementation of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). Syntax: <"tag" bgcolor="Value"> 

4. Which is the correct variable declaration in JavaScript? 

A) var a= {'a', 'b', 'c'}; 

C) var a= {"a" "b” “c”} 

Ans: D 

to dold 4 A 

B) var a= {'a' 'b' 'c'} D) None 

B) $add = $add +1 D) $add. = +1; 

mbe sigh du spd algaben 

Ans: D 

Note: var array_name = [item1, item2, .....]; 

5. Which is correct for concatenation in PHP? 

A) Sadd = $add+1 

C) Sadd = $add + $add 

Note: There are two string operators. The first is the concatenation operator ("."), which returns the concatenation of its right and left arguments. The second is the concatenating assignment operator ('='), which appends the argument on the right side to the argument on the left side. 

6. Which is not work of Data link layer? 

bas 

C) Cabling 

D) None 

Ans: C 

A) Error control B) Adding MAC address Note: The data link layer, or layer 2, is the second layer of the seven-layer OSI model of computer networking. This layer is the protocol layer that transfers data between nodes on a network segment across the physical layer. The data link layer provides the functional and procedural means to transfer data between network entities and might provide the means to detect and possibly correct errors that may occur in the physical layer. Data link layer has two sub-layers: 

GUIDED ONTO BEN COMPACT BYOBUD ODPRETTY 20 SOLLTEN COMPACT ET 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DEAD COMPAC 

02 BODY Page | 196 

Question Bank 

ESQUET IT AS BLUNDER CACTTY JOB SOLUTERI CERPACT IT ORSOLATER COPACITY 28 ERUPTIN COM 

ins8 nollas MCQ 

☛ Logical Link Control: It deals with protocols, flow-control, and error control 

Media Access Control: It deals with actual control of media 

7. Which is used for adding two or more string in PHP? 

MOTOBATOPACT TY 

A) + 

B)* 

C). (dot) 

D) | 

Ans: C 

Note: 

<?php 

$name="Compact"; 

$lastName="IT"; 

echo $name." ".$lastName; // Outputs Compact IT 

$a="Hello"; 

$a 

་་ 

= 

?> 

Compact!"; 

echo $a; // Outputs Hello Compact! 

8. Which is the slowest algorithm? 

A) Bubble Sort 

B) Quick sort C) Heap sort 

D) None 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018] 

Ans: A 

9. Find the correct arranged data after stack operation push (1), push (2), pop, push 

(1), push (2), pop, pop, pop, push (2), pop. 

Ans: A 

bolsoqa Al 

A) 22112 

Note: 

B) 22121 

C) 22221 

D) 22212 

Operation 

Stack 

Pop Sequence 

Push 1 

1 

Push 2 

1,2 

A 

Pop 

1 

2 

4 phyl glab ov 

Push 1 

1, 1 

Push 2 

1, 1, 20 mg Istit 

Pop 

1,1 

2,2 

A 

Pop 

1 

2,2,1 

Pop 

Empty 

2,2,1,1 

Push 2 

2 

Pop 

Empty 

2,2,1,1,2 

10. Stack operations are 

A) delete, insertion B) insertion, delete 

C) push, pop 

D) pop, push 

81 

Ans: C 

Note: Stack operations may involve initializing the stack, using it and then de-initializing it. Apart from these basic stuffs, a stack is used for the following two primary operations - 

push()-Pushing (storing) an element on the stack. 

pop() - Removing (accessing) an element from the stack. 

B) Bus 

11. Whole network will break if node is defect in which network topology? 

A) Star Note: Advantages & Disadvantages of Bus topology is given below: 

Advantages 

Works well for small networks 

Relatively inexpensive to implement 

Easy to add to it 

Disadvantages 

LED CCT ST 200 SOLUTION COMPACT SOURCE COPPICTED 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

C) Mesh 

D) Hybrid 

Ans: B 

RENCOMPACT BY 

MOITUJOR ROL TI Page | 197 

Question Bank 

Management costs can be high 

Potential for congestion with network traffic Not Fault Tolerant 

A break in bus may affect whole network 12. Server machine is connected to- 

A) Network 

B) Client 

ansa noitze MCQ 

FLATEN COCYTY ED RELATENCY SELLUTER COMPLY BEWUSTER COMPACT TEN COMPACT 200 SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

10 02) gibbs Tol byen doidW 

C) supercomputer 

(8 

D) Host 

15108 

Ans: B 

Note: A server is a software or hardware device that accepts and responds to requests made over a network. The device that makes the request, and receives a response from the server, is called a client. On the Internet, the term "server" commonly refers to the computer system that receives requests for a web files and sends those files to the client. 

13. Which are the keywords of structured programming? 

A) Keywords 

B) Constant C) volatile 

int 

Note: 32 Keywords in C Programming Language 

auto 

break 

double 

else 

enum 

long 

D) Above all 

struct 

switch 

Ans: C 

case 

char 

register 

typedef 

extern 

return 

union 

const 

float 

short 

unsigned 

continue 

for 

signed 

void 

default 

do 

Cato 

goto 

sizeof 

volatile 

if 

static 

while 

14. Repeated data exist at- 

A) unnormalized 

B) INF 

C) 2NF 

D) 3NF 

Ans: A 

C) graph 

Note: Database normalization is the process of restructuring a relational database in accordance with a series of so-called normal forms in order to reduce data redundancy and improve data integrity. It was first proposed by Edgar F. Codd as an integral part of his relational model. 15. Which is not linear? 

A) Linked list 

B) array 

Note: Link list, array, stack, queue is linear. 16. The value 9.87 to 10 when use? 

Ans: C 

D) None 

A) floor ( 

Note: 

B) ceil() 

C) both A & B 

D) None 

Ans: B 

using namespace std; 

usingnamespacestd; 

nomsani,stolob (A 

int main( 

intmain 

{ 

{ 

cout<<"Floor is:" <<floor (2.3) <<endl; 

return 0; 

cout<<" Ceil is: "<< ceil (2.3) <<endl; return0; 

} 

gog 

} 

Output: 20 

Output: 31 And whowion sled 

TET JOD SOLUTIONDODONCIA SOLUTER COMPACT ST 200 SOUTEN COMPACT IT DO SOLUTION CEPACT IT JOB SOLATION COMPACT ET JO SOLUTION CON 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DE 35 920 

910 

of bbs of fel. 1 

LUSTERIN COMPACT ET 2018 SOLLTEN COMPACT I ES CELLATENCOMPACT ST 

MOITUJO2 801 T Page | 198 

Question Bank 

SELARER CONVICT BY JOB SOLATION CEPACT IT 203S SOLUTEN COMPACT 17 JR HOLASTICON CEPOPACT ET XSD DPACT IT DER SOLUT 

DOPO 

COMPACT 

Anal noises MCQ 

DVD GRCT IF XXX SOUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SERVEER COMPACT IT 

Sonali Bank Limited Officer (IT) 

Preliminary Exam: 2016 

1. Which of the following is not an output device? 

9 

man bleges Asin W11 

MARIA 

nodiom vinc-bis 

talef 

A) Printer or B) Monitor Note: Printer, Monitor and Speaker is an output device. 2. In MS PowerPoint, shortcut for creating a new slide is- 

C) Speaker 

D) Mouse 

ohdin Ans: D 

A) Ctrl + Nand 

B) Ctrl + S 

C) Ctrl + M 

D) Ctrl + P 

Ans: A 

Note: In Microsoft PowerPoint, the Ctrl + M shortcut key inserts a new blank slide after the selected slide. Ctrl + P: Active the pen tool during a show. Ctrl + S: Save a presentation. 

3. Which one works as an output and input device? d KREA) Keyboard B) Mouse 

C) Monitor 

12 guloltoi sat to dal D) Modem 

218 Ans: D 

Note: Modem and Projector works as an output and input device. 4. Which of the following is not a data transmission medium? 

A) Infra-red 

B) Satellite 

C) Search engine 

D) Bluetooth 

Ans: C 

Note: Transmission media is a communication channel that carries the information from the sender to the receiver. Data is transmitted through the electromagnetic signals. Examples of guided media include phone lines, twisted pair cables, coaxial cables, and optical fibers. Unguided transmission media are methods that allow the transmission of data without the use of physical means to define the path it takes. Examples of this include microwave or Satellite and radio or infrared. 5. Properly arranged data is called: 

A) Field 

B) Information 

C) File 

D) Document 

Ans: B 

Note: Information is arranged or classified data, which has some meaningful values for the receiver. Information is the processed data on which decisions and actions are based. A field is a single piece of information; a record is one complete set of fields; and a file is a collection of records. 

6. The process of identifying and correcting mistakes in a computer program is 

referred to as- 

A) Debugging 

B) Desk Checking 

C) Verification 

D) Correction Ans: A Note: Debugging is a methodical process of finding and reducing the number of bugs, or defects, in a computer program or software code. Whereas, Testing is the process of finding bugs in already developed software not in software code. 

7. Which one is not word processing software? 

B) WordPerfect 

9248 

A) MSWord 

C) MS Excel D) Words Star Note: MS Excel is Spreadsheet software; others are word processing. 8. Which of the following is spreadsheet software? 

A) PowerPoint B) MS Word 

C) Fox Pro 

D) MS Excel 

Ans: C 

Ans: D 

9. Which software is more useful in preparing a report with statistical and accounting 

analysis? 

A) MSWord 

B) PowerPoint 

C) Excel 

D) Access 

Ans: C 

Note: Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet program included in the Microsoft Office suite of applications. Spreadsheets present tables of values arranged in rows and columns that can be manipulated mathematically using both basic and complex arithmetic operations and functions. 

BECOMPACT IT 238 LUTER COMPACT ST SOLATED COMPACT 2018 SOLISTEN COMPACTIVATION COMPACT IT 238 SOLUTION COMPACT ST XBSOLUTEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DEUTER COMPACT IT 

MOITUJOR BOLTI Page | 199 

Question Bank 

10. Which of the following is an operating system? 

B) Oracle 

C) Excel 

Minsa nolas MCQ 

D) Power Point Ans: A 

A) Unix Note: The most common operating systems for personal computers are Microsoft Windows, MacOS, Unix and Linux. 

11. Which computer memory is never erased? 

B) ROM 

C) CHIPS 

D) AGP 

A) RAM 

Ans: B Note: Read-only memory (ROM) is a type of non-volatile memory used in computers and other electronic devices. Data stored in ROM cannot be electronically modified after the manufacture of the memory device. 

B) 8 bits 

12. 1 byte is equal to: 

A) 4 bits Note: 1 byte = 8 bit. 1 kilobyte (K/Kb) = 210 bytes = 1,024 bytes. 1 megabyte (M/MB) = 220 bytes 1,048,576 bytes. 1 gigabyte (G/GB) = 230 bytes = 1,073,741,824 bytes. 13. Which of the following is the save button in computer keyboard? 

C) 6 bits 

D) 12 bits 

4214 al 

dub 

Ans: B 

= 

A) F12 

B) F8 

C) F6 

D) F1 

kivo Ans: A 

Note: 

9167 

F1 brings up a Help window in many applications, including browsers, Microsoft office and others. 

F8 Extend selection (MS Office) 

F6 move the cursor within the program, go to next frame or pane. F12 Opens "Save as" dialog (MS Office) 

unod sbulbat 

A) QWETRY 

B) QWRETY C) QWRTEY D) QWERTY 

Ans: D 

14. Common keyboard arrangement is called 

Note: The QWERTY keyboard was invented by Christopher Sholes, who was issued a patent for a typewriter on July 14, 1868. However, the QWERTY layout helped make people type faster since the keys would not stick as frequently. 

15. One nibble equal to: 

A) 1 bit 

B) 4 bits 

C) 2 bits 

C) Hard Disk 

701 

D) 8 bits 

Ans: B 

D) RAM 

olyAns: A 

16. When you start your computer then which component works first? 

B) Processor 

A) BIOS Note: BIOS (basic input/output system) is the program a personal computer's microprocessor uses to get the computer system started after you turn it on. 

17. A hard disk is divided into tracks which are further subdivided into: 

A) Clusters 

B) Sectors 

C) Vector 

D) Strata 

Ans: B Note: The surfaces are usually divided into concentric rings, called tracks, and these in turn are divided into sectors. This division is used to specify locations on the hard disk and to allocate disk space to files. 

18. The last part of the IP address represents the address of: 

B) Network 

C) Broadcast 

D) Topology 

Ans: C 

A) Unicast Note: First part represents network address, last part represents broadcast address and rest of host address. 

19. The computer stores its program and data in its 

B) control unit 

A) Memory 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

C) monitor 

D) cache memory 

Ans: A 

MOITUJOS BOLTI Page | 200 

Question Bank 

PICT SOLARION DET FTS BELUTENIEN (DURCH VI ER STADTERN COMPLET 

inas noises MCQ 

DODOROTDEAN COPPICT DE DUOACT ST 

Note: Computer memory is any physical device capable of storing information temporarily or permanently, for example, Random Access Memory (RAM) is a volatile memory. 

20. Which is the name of the structure where data move through a network? 

BA) Packets 

B) Payload 

Note: Packets data moves through the networks. 

C) Datagrams 

D) Token 

Ans: A 

Sonali Bank Limited 

Assistant Engineer (IT) 

Preliminary Exam: 2016 

1. To divide a class C network into a maximum of 14 subnets - each capable of having 

up to 14 hosts, the subnet mask use should be- 

A) 255.255.255.0 

C) 255.255.255.78 

B) 255.255.255.192 

D) 255.255.255.240 

Ans: D 

Note: If need up to 14 hosts so require host bit= 4, because host= 24 -2=14, so subnet mask= 

255.255.255.240 

2. The main threat of cloud-based provisioning is- 

C) Virtualization 

D) All of the above 

Ans: B 

A) Coast B) Security Note: Virtualized physical resources, infrastructure, and applications are supplied by service provisioning in the cloud. The evolution in the adoption of cloud computing is driven by clear and distinct promising features for both cloud users and cloud providers. 

3. Which one is modern lightweight message exchange format? 

A) XM: 

C) HTML 

B) MX 

D) JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) 

Ans: D 

Note: JSON is a lightweight data-interchange format. It is easy for humans to read and write. It is easy for machines to parse and generate. 

4. Which of the following programming helps you to learn android programming? 

B) SQL 

C) Java 

A) C Note: Java is a primary android development language. 5. Email is a protocol of the following layer? 

A) Physical Layer 

C) Application Layer 

D) Python 

B) Datalink layer 

D) TCP layer 

Ans: C 

Ans: C 

Note: POP (Post Office) is an application layer protocol for a TCP/IP network for the transferring of E-mail. 

6. ALU stores the computed result immediately in 

A) Memory Address registers 

C) General registers 

B) PCE D) Accumulator 

री 

Note: Accumulator is an internal memory spaces to store immediate results. 7. Which protocol is used for secured web browsing? 

A) WWW 

B) RSA 

C) https 

D) ftp 

Ans: D 

77.21 

Ans: C 

Note: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure is an extension of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol. It is used for secure communication over a computer network, and is widely used on the Internet. In 

WOTE KUIER CONTITE 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

WHAT IT 

MOT 

102 80 

Page | 201**