**Question Bank 

HTTPS, the communication protocol is encrypted using Transport Layer Security or, formerly, its predecessor, Secure Sockets Layer. 

8. Which tool could be used for deleting vulnerability through SQL Injection? 

C) Bitdefender 

S 

A) Nmap 

B) Metasploit 

D) UML Ans: B Note: Metasploit is the world's most used penetration testing software. Uncover weaknesses in your defenses, focus in the right risks, and improve security. 

9. Which software is mostly used for virtualization? 

B) Oracle DBMS 

A) VMWare 

C) Windows XP D) Linux Ans: A Note: Any conversation about virtualization for small and medium-sized businesses usually starts around VMware. Although it wasn't necessarily the first, VMware was the company that really put office virtualization on everyone's action item list. 10. How many layers Internet protocol suite? 

B) 5 

C) 3 

D) 4 

#sbivit 

Ans: D 

A) 7 Note: The TCP/IP reference model has four layers: Network interface, Internet, Transport, and Application. 

Layer OSI Layer Equivalent 

TCP/IP Protocol Examples 

4 

Transport 

TCP, UDP 

3 

Network 

IP, ARP, ICMP 

2 

1 

Data Link Physical 

PPP, IEEE 802.2 

Ethernet (IEEE 802.3) Token Ring, RS-232, others 

A) Array 

B) Lists 

C) Stacks 

11. The Term push and Pop is related to the 

Note: In Stack, PUSH & POP are the two main operations. Push operation inserts an element in the stack and pop operation deletes an element from the stack. 

12. POP3 (Post Office Protocol V3) is a protocol for- 

D) All of the above nogomet Ans: C 

A) Email Sending 

C) Email Composing 

JMTHO 

B) Email Receiving D) Email Storing 

club ide.dgilcai MORE: 

Ans: B 

Note: Post Office Protocol version 3 (POP3) is a standard mail protocol used to receive emails from a remote server to a local email client. POP3 allows you to download email messages on your local computer. 

13. The step by step instructions that solve a problem are called? 

B) A list 

6221 

107 

C) A plan D) None of them 

Ans: A 

A) An algorithm Note: An algorithm is an unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems. Algorithms can perform calculation, data processing and automated reasoning tasks. 14. Which OS is recommended for real time systems? 

A) Windows 

B) Unix 

C) Oracle 

10/200904 :976/ 

D) None of them 297 Ja Ans: D 

Note: Real time system means that the system is subjected to real time, i.e., response should be guaranteed within a specified timing constraint or system should meet the specified deadline. RT Linux, VRTX, Linux is real time OS. 

15. Which one loads first when you boot up your Computer? 

D) None of them 

Ans: A 

A) BIOS B) Operating System C) Keyboard driver Note: First, the CPU runs an instruction in memory for the BIOS. That instruction contains a jump instruction that transfers to the BIOS start-up program. This program runs a power-on self-test (POST) to check that devices the computer will rely on are functioning properly. 

CEPRACTIT XSBUD OPTID SUUTEN COMPACTONITIDSOLUTEN COMPACT ET JOR SOLUTEN COMPACTTY JOB SOLUTION COMPACTTY JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

WTEN COMPACT ET JOB BOLATES COPACT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IN 2018 BEALLSTEN COMPACT IT IS SELLVERCOMPACT IT 

MOITU 02 Bot T Page | 202 

Question Bank 

PRETE 20 SELITEN COMPACT ET 200 SOLUNTEER COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT WX CLUSTER COMPACT ET 208 SOLSTER COMPACT ST XO SALATER-CEMPACTTY JOB QUARTER COMPACT TY KE SELUJ 

las 8 noises MCQ 

DEDICTED BLUUTEN COMPACTT DE SOUNDCOMPACT IT 

16. A path for carrying signals between a source and a destination is known as 

A) Router 

B) Channel 

#C) Link 

D) Block 

Ans: B Note: A communication channel or simple channel refers either to a physical transmission medium such as a wire, or to a logical connection over a multiplexed medium such as a radio channel in telecommunications and computer networking. 

17. In which model prototype can be developed? 

A) Unified Process 

C) Evolutionary-model 

sead 

B) Waterfall Model boweng bananas adre D) All of the above 

Ans: C Note: Evolutionary prototyping also called as breadboard prototyping is based on building actual functional prototypes with minimal functionality in the beginning. The prototype developed forms the heart of the future prototypes on top of which the entire system is built. By using evolutionary prototyping, the well-understood requirements are included in the prototype and the requirements are added as and when they are understood. 

18. "The time to communicate between Bangladesh and USA is the same as that to communicate between two adjacent houses in Bangladesh," -In which case is the above true? 

B) Satellite 

C) Twisted pair 

D) Radio link 

A) Fiber optic 

Ans: B 

Note: A communications satellite is an artificial satellite that relays and amplifies radio telecommunications signals via a transponder; it creates a communication channel between a source transmitter and a receiver at different locations on Earth. Communications satellites are used for television, telephone, radio, internet, and military applications. 19. Which of the following is the security equipment? 

A) Router 

B) IPS 

C) Switch 

D) Hub 

3107 

Ans: A 

Note: The router is a physical or virtual internetworking device that is designed to receive, analyze, and forward data packets between computer networks. A router examines a destination IP address of a given data packet, and it uses the headers and forwarding tables to decide the best way to transfer the packets. There are some popular companies that Cisco, 3Com, HP, Juniper, D-Link, Nortel, etc. 

develop 

routers; such are 

Dorbrag 

D) None 

20. Which of the following data structure is non-linear type? 

A) String 

B) Lists 

C) Stacks 

Ans: D 

Note: Data structure where data elements are arranged sequentially or linearly where the elements are attached to its previous and next adjacent in what is called a linear data structure. Its examples are array, stack, queue, linked list etc. 

Data structures where data elements are not arranged sequentially or linearly are called non-linear data structures. Its examples are trees and graphs. 

21. The operation of processing each element in the list is known as- 

B) Merging C) Inserting 

doid N 10E 

A) Traversal 

D) Sorting 

Ans: A Note: The operation of processing each element in the list is known as traversal. It refers to the process of visiting (checking and/or updating) each node in a tree data structure, exactly once. 22. The complexity of Bubble sort algorithm is- 

A) O(n) 

B) O(long n) 

C) O(n2) 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 11] 

D) O(n log n) 

Ans: C 

DRETS DUTEN COMPACT IT 2018 BOLLATES CEPICTET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 308 SOLATION COMPACT IT BOLSTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUSTER COMPACT ET S 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

SOUTER COMPACT IT 

MOITUJOS BOL TX Page | 203 

Question Bank 

UBOURD COMPACT 28ODOROT 

Ansa noite MCQ 

IN ROUTEN (IMPACT 3 238 SQLTER COMPACT EXO-SOUTENESSPACE IT 

23. Generally what type of server OS is chosen, where security concern is a great issue? 

A) Windows XP 

C) DOS V 

B) Windows Server 2000 

D) UNIX 

Ans: B Note: Some of the significant features of Windows 2000 Server are: Active Directory improves manageability, enables security, and extends interoperability with other operating systems. Provides high-level interfaces for database access and Active Directory services. 

24. The command password issued without an argument with change the password of - 

A) Root user 

C) User with lowest user id 

B) Current user 

D) User with lowest group id 

Ans: B 

ng Jano loud 

C) CCD 

D) DASD 

Ans: B 

25. An acronym for conference of Data systems languages is - 

B) CODASYL 

- 

A) Collate Note: CODASYL is an acronym for "Conference on Data Systems Languages". This was a consortium formed in 1959 to guide the development of a standard programming language that could be used on many computers. Its larger goal was to promote more effective data systems analysis, design, and implementation. 

26. According to Boolean algebra the value of: (A + AB). (B+AB) is- 

A) A 

B) B 

C) AB 

D) I 

Note: (A+AB).(B+AB) = A(1+B). B(1+A) = (A.1) (B.1) [If, A+1=1] = AB 27. Which of the following requires the most time in SDLC? 

Ans: C 

25705 

A) Requirement Analysis B) Testing C) Deployment sans b.D) Design Ans: D Note: Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is a process used by the software industry to design, develop and test high quality software. The SDLC aims to produce a high-quality software that meets or exceeds customer expectations, reaches completion within times and cost estimates. 28. Test case is written by- 

B) Developer C) Test Engineer 

D) Designer bbink 

A) Tester 

Ans: A 

Note: A TEST CASE is a set of conditions or variables under which a tester will determine whether a system under test satisfies requirements or works correctly. 

B) slower C) similar 

29. Compared to CISC, RISC processors (at the same clock) are- 

jols to doid A) faster 

D) undefined 

Ans: A 012 Note: CISC stands for Complex Instruction Set Computer and RISC stands for Reduced Instruction Set Computer. In common CISC chips are relatively slow (compared to RISC chips) per instruction, but use little (less than RISC) instructions. Therefore, fewer simpler and faster instructions would be better, than the large, complex and slower CISC instructions. However, more instructions are needed to accomplish a task. 

30. Which of the following is not a type of Web search engine? to 

B) Human-organized C) Hybrid 

A) Computer-created Note: [Combined Bank, Maintenance Engineer: 2018, Q.29] 

31. The action of decoding a modulated signal is known as - 

UNO D) Portal 

Ans: B 

3305 

Ans: D 

A) Simulation B) Emulation C) Binary D) None of the above Note: In electronics and telecommunications, modulation is the process of varying one or more properties of a periodic waveform, called the carrier signal, with a modulating signal that typically 

BUDO 

AFTER COMPACT ET BOLAS 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

OLUTEN CROPPACT IT BSOLUTEIN COMPACT 1728 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 

DMPACT SOLUTION 

JOB SOUTER CNILILUTEN COMPACT JO-SOLVENCOMPACT I 

MOITUJO2 80L TI Page | 204 

Question Bank 

BLAREDO GEROPACT OF DEMOLAJEDNO COMPACT ET XUD STRATTON CLB-PACT IT ED SCRATER CELY STE GUTER 

bined noites MCQ 

KONCERTOPACT TY 

contains information to be transmitted. Most radio systems in the 20th century used frequency modulation (FM) or amplitude modulation (AM) for radio broadcast. 

A modulator is a device that performs modulation. A demodulator (sometimes detector or demod) is a device that performs demodulation, the inverse of modulation. A modem (from modulator- demodulator) can perform both operations. 

32. The only language understood by a digital computer is called- 

A) Assembly language 

C) Machine language 

B) High level language eD) None of the above 

Ans: C 

Note: Sometimes referred to as machine code or object code, machine language is a collection of binary digits or bits that the computer reads and interprets. Machine language is the only language a computer is capable of understanding. 

An assembly language is a low-level programming language designed for a specific type of processor. It may be produced by compiling source code from a high-level programming language (such as C/C++) but can also be written from scratch. Assembly code can be converted to machine code using an assembler. 

33. You need to determine whether IP information has been assigned to your Windows 

NT. Which utility should you use? 

A) NBTSTAT 

B) NETSTAT 

C) IPCONFIG 

D) WINTPCFG 

Ans: C Note: In computing, ipconfig is a console application of some operating systems that displays all current TCP/IP network configuration values and refresh Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol and Domain Name System settings. 

34. Data directory contains detail of- 

A) Data structure 

B) Data flows 

C) Data store 

D) None 

Ans: A 

Note: A directory is a container that is used to contain folders and file. It organizes files and folders into a hierarchical manner. There are several logical structures of a directory, these are: Single-level directory, Two-level directory, Tree-structured directory, Acyclic graph directory etc. 

35. In SQL, the 

command is used to recompile a view. 

ub 

A) COMPLTE VIEW 

C) ALTER VIEW 

B) DEFINE VIEW 

D) CREATE VIEW 

Note: [Sonali & Janata Bank, Officer (IT/ICT): 2019, Q. 22] 

Ans: C 

36. How many pairs of stations can simultaneously communicate on Ethernet LAN? 

A) 1 

B) 2 

C) 3 

D) Multiple 

Note: LAN uses base band cable in which only one signal can travel at a time. 

Ans: A 

37. Which of the following terms refers to the degree to which data in a database system 

are accurate and correct? 

A) Data integrity 

C) Data validity 

anal sideo lepinge 

B) Data security 

D) None of the above 

Ans: A 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer: 2019, Q. 17] 

38. Which of the following is not a standard synchronous communication protocol? 

B) PAS 

C) SLIP 

A) SDLC Note: [Sonali & Janata Bank, Officer (IT/ICT): 2019, Q. 12] 39. Distributed Queue Dual Bus is a standard for-47* 

A) MAN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

D) SMTP 

Ans: B 

B) WAN 

C) Wireless LAN 

D) PAN 

Ans: A 

AO SELAREN COMPACT IT SOLLTEN CEMPACT ET 2018 BELLITEON COMPACT IT JOB SELLSTEN COMPACT ITXUTER COACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT ER BOURTEIN GERONCT 

OS COLLATEIN CONTE DESUTER COMPACT IT 200 SEMMEN COMPACT (DEUTDES ACT ST 

MOITU 

BOLTI Page | 205 

Question Bank 

STREDONDAUDI ONOAROOT BRUDER COPACITY IN SOLUTEN COMPACT TROUD OMPACT) 

Note: [Combined Bank, Maintenance Engineer: 2018, Q. 33] 

B) Optic fiber 

C) CATV 

dusa noites MCQ 

ASSEN OMPACT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT BOLSTION COMPACT 15 208 SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

D) UTP b 

Ans: C 

40. Which of the following medium is used for broadband local networks? 

A) Coaxial Note: [Sonali & Janata Bank, Officer (IT/ICT): 2019, Q. 27] 41. Which of the standard protocol for network management features? 

A) SNMP 

B) SNA 

C) FTP 

Note: [Sonali & Janata Bank, Officer (IT/ICT): 2019, Q. 19] 

D) SMTP 

Ans: A 

FontbrMa 

42. A network that requires human intervention of route signals is called a-mod taluv 

A) T-switched network 

C) Ring network 

B) Bus network 

D) Star network 

Note: A T-switch is used to rearrange the connections between computing equipment. 43. Which of the following tags is used to create a paragraph in HTML? 

A) <para>content</para> 

B) <cont>para</cont> D) <body>content</body> 

1 

oldino 

Ans: A 

Ans: C 

C) <p> content</p> Note: The HTML <p> element represents a paragraph. Paragraphs are usually represented in visual media as blocks of text separated from adjacent blocks by blank lines and/or first-line indentation, but HTML paragraphs can be any structural grouping of related content, such as images or form fields. 44. Which of the following is an example of a client server model? 

B) FTP 

C) DNS 

D) All 

A) TELNET 

45 99T Ans: D Note: A client and server networking model is a model in which computers such as servers provide the network services to the other computers such as clients to perform a user based tasks. This model is known as client-server networking model. 

1071 

A client is a program that runs on the local machine requesting service from the server. A client program is a finite program means that the service started by the user and terminates when the service is completed. 

A server is a program that runs on the remote machine providing services to the clients. When the client requests for a service, then the server opens the door for the incoming requests, but it never initiates the service. 

B) WAN 

D) Intranet 

de 

45. A communication network which is used by large organizations over regional, 

national or global area is called- 

To rung yaam woll, E A) LAN 

C) MAN 

Ans: B Note: A communication network which is used by large organization over regional, national or global area is called WAN. A Wide Area Network (WAN) is a data network, usually used for connecting 

network, usually used for connecti computers, that spans a wide geographical area. 46. Fiber optical cable is used for- 

A) LAN in an office 

1900 bin olenuous STR 

B) telephone lines at ( 

Ans: D 

C) data connectivity among the branches of offices D) None of the above Note: Optical fiber is used as a medium for telecommunication and computer networking because it is flexible and can be bundled as cables. It is especially advantageous for long-distance communications, because infrared light propagates through the fiber with much lower attenuation compared to electrical 

cables. 

47. What is not the advantage of IPv6 over IPv4? AA) longer address 

uad.ve 

MAM (A 

and susu 

botu 

B) Classification of traffic 

JOB BOLLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SANTEN COMPACT ET 2018 BELLITENCOMPACT IT 

MOTUJO 800 T/ Page | 206 

GENOACTIVE SOLTERORTIDAOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLSTION COMPACT E QUE OPPRICT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT B LUTZEN COMPA 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Question Bank 

SMARTCH COMPACT IT DI SELUKKEN COPSPRICT IT 2018 SCLAMEROON COMPACT IT JOB SEBASTERN 

C) More real IP addresses 

D) Jumbo Payload 

MCQ 

UDPACT SY 

Ans: A 

Note: Some advantages of IPv6 are: More Efficient Routing, More Efficient Packet Processing, Directed Data Flows, Simplified Network Configuration, Support for New Services and Security. 48. In Java, which operator is used to create an object? 

A) class 

B) scanf 

C) print 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer: 2019, Q. 10] 49. Which video File format is used for HDTV? 

B) BJMPEGI 

C) MPEG2 

D) New 

D) MPEG4 

Ans: D 

Ans: A 

A) AVI Note: HDTV stands for High-Definition Television. HDTV is a newer technology that began to replace SDTV in the late 1990s. AVI is one of the most well-known Audio-Video formats. Still the best quality video format in many situations, AVI video format is holding its own compared to more modern video file formats. It is still widely supported and deserves consideration from any serious audio-video user or creator. 

50. Which is not a feature of object-oriented programming? 

B) Encapsulation 

Ans: C 

A) Inheritance 

C) Recursion B) Abstraction Note: Some key features of the Object Oriented programming are: 

Encapsulation: Encapsulation is capturing data and keeping it safely and securely from outside interfaces. 

G 

Inheritance: This is the process by which a class can be derived from a base class with all features of base class and some of its own. This increases code reusability. 

Polymorphism: This is the ability to exist in various forms. For example, an operator can be overloaded so as to add two integer numbers and two floats. 

☛ Abstraction: The ability to represent data at a very conceptual level without any details. 

51. In C++, the idea to hiding the details of how something is implemented is known as- 

B) polymorphism 

C) recursion 

A) inheritance Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer: 2019, Q.7] 

52. The following are functions of a DBMS except 

A) creating and processing forms 

C) processing data 

D) encapsulation 

B) creating databases D) administrating databases 

Ans: D 

Ans: A 

Note: A DBMS performs several important functions that guarantee integrity and consistency of data in the database. Most of these functions are transparent to end-users. There are the following important functions and services provided by a DBMS: 

Database Communication Interfaces 

Data Definition Services 

Data Dictionary/System Catalog Management 

Database Communication Interfaces 

Sonali Bank Limited 

Assistant Programmer 

Preliminary Exam: 2016 

1. The transformation of a message into an encoded from is known as 

A) Memories 

B) Encoding C) Decoding 

C) Decoding D) None of them 

O SOLARES CONSPIELTEN COPOPRACT IT 23 SELTEN VCT SOLLTEN COMPACT IT XD! 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: B 

DACTY 

MOIT 

BOLT Page | 207 

Question Bank 

use noise MCQ 

Note: A message sent over the network is transformed into an unrecognizable encrypted message known as data encryption. At the receiving end, the received message is converted to its original form known as decryption. 

2. An acronym for Conference/Committee on Data Systems Languages is? 

C) CODASYL 

MA) DASD 

B) CCD 

D) None of them Ans: C Note: CODASYL, the Conference on Data Systems Languages, was consortium formed in 1959 to guide the development of a standard programming language that could be used on many computers. This effort led to the development of the programming language COBOL and other technical standards. 

3. Which protocol can cause overload on a CPU of a managed device? 

A) NetFlow 

B) WCCP 

C) IP SLA 

D) SNMP 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer: 2018, Q.01] 

1910- 

768 Ans: D 

4. Which type of cable is used to connect the COM port of a host to the COM port of a 

router or switch? 

A) Crossover 

C) Rolled 

B) Straight-through 

D) Shielded twisted pair 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer: 2018, Q.02] 

v Jon of fold / 02 onsdhodni 6 Ans: C 

5. An algorithm that calls itself directly or indirectly is known as-opalaegson 

A) Sub Algorithm 

C) Polish notation 

B) Recursion 

D) Traversal algorithmongthodni Ans: B Note: The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion and the corresponding function is called as recursive function. Using recursive algorithm, certain problems can be solved quite easily. 

6. Which of the following protocol uses both TCP and UDP ports? 

A) SMTP 

B) telnet 

C) FTP 

D) DNS 

Ans: D 

Note: DNS uses TCP for zone exchanges between servers and UDP when a client is trying to resolve a hostname to an IP address. 

B) scanf 

C) Print 

7. In Java, which operator is used to create an object- 

A) Class Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer: 2019, Q.10] 8. A class that is inherited in java is called a 

A) Subclass 

B) Super class 

C) Static class 

ne galwollut odl 

D) none of them 

Ans: D 

D) Implement class 

Ans: B 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer: 2018, Q. 24] 9. Which of the following TCP/IP address constitute the loopback address? 

A) 1.1.1.1 

C) 127.0.0.0 

B) 255.255.255.0 

D) 127.0.0.1 

C) OR 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Assistant Programmer-2018, Q. 20] 

10. Which one is universal logic gate? 

A) NAND 

B) AND 

D) NOT 

Ans: D 

Ans: A 

Note: A universal gate is a gate which can implement any Boolean function without need to use any other gate type. The NAND and nor gates are universal gates. 

om site noise of 

ACT ST 200 SOLLTEN CONCTIDED COMPACTYODONCIDQUE TUDOMPACT ITS ELUTEN COMPM 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

CONCOMPACT B 

MOITUJO2 8OCTI Page | 208 

Question Bank 

ED KLASSER COMPACT IN 208 LUTTEN EPPACT IT JUS BELLATION COMPACT EYES SEASTERN COMPACT II XO SOLLTEN GEDPACT IS XIO COLLAREM ODPACT T JES SOUTER CONTE 

Ans8 notice MCQ 

WER COMPACT IT IS CURES CENOIDBSTENCOMPACT IT 

BREB 

Assistant General Manager (IT) Preliminary Exam: 2016 

"dashalga 

1. What is the full meaning of SQL? A) Search and Query Language C) Standard Query Language 

B) Simulation of Query Language D) Structured Query Language 

Ans: D 

Note: SQL stands for Structured Query Language. It is generally pronounced as see-qwell. It is a widely used programming language designed for working with Relational Database Management System. Initially, it was named as SEQUEL (Structured English Query Language) designed to add, update or remove data from within a database. Later, it changed its name as Structured Query Language (SQL). The scope of SQL includes data insert, query, update and delete, schema creation and modification, and data access control. 

2. Maximum speed of voice band is 

A) 6900 bps 

B) 6900 kbps 

--- 

C) 9600 bps 

D) 9600 kbps 

102 

Ans: C 

Note: Fundamental frequency: The voiced speech of a typical adult male will have a fundamental frequency from 85 to 180 Hz, and that of a typical adult female from 165 to 255 Hz. Thus, the fundamental frequency of most speech falls below the bottom of the "voice frequency" band as defined above. 

3. Which is not application software? 

A) Bing B) Red hat Linux 

C) MS office 

D) Adobe 

Ans: B 

Note: Application software is a program or group of programs designed for end users. While system software consists of low-level programs that interact with computers at a basic level, application software resides above system software and includes applications such as database programs, word processors and spreadsheets. 

4. Which one is faster memory? 

B) Secondary Memory C) DRAM 

D) Cache 

Ans: D 

A) RAM Note: Cache memory, also called CPU memory, is high-speed static random-access memory (SRAM) that a computer microprocessor can access more quickly than it can access regular random-access memory (RAM). 

5. What is pipilika form www.pipilika.com? 

A) A Bangla Font 

C) A Bangladeshi Browser 

shugaroo B) A Bangladeshi graphic Software 

D) A Bangladeshi Game App 

Ans: Note Note: Pipilika is a web search engine operated from Sylhet, Bangladesh. It is the country's first Bangla search engine developed by the Computer Science and Engineering students of Shahjalal University of Science and Technology, Sylhet, Bangladesh as a thesis project. It has the ability to search both in Bengali and English language. Pipilika is country's first and only search engine which can search both Bangla and English. 

6. Which is logical operator? 

B) >= 

Toga 

C) AND 

D) << 

A) + Note: There are three logical operators in programming language: AND, OR and NOT. 7. Which of the following will not increase the value of variable c by 1? 

A) c++ 

B) c = c+1 

C) c+1>=c D) c+=1 

Ans: C 

Ans: C 

GRICTS AS BLAREER COMPACT STATEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOMA 

TT JB SOLDEN COMPACTIO QUAD 

POTRETE COMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ08 BOLTI Page | 209 

Question Bank 

nad colee MCQ 

DATOROWATEN COMPACT ADOPTED OWOCOMPACT IT 

Note: A program can increment by 1 the value of a variable called c using the increment operator, ++, rather than the expression c=c+1 or c+-1. An increment or decrement operator that is prefixed to (placed before) a variable is referred to as the prefix increment or prefix decrement operator, respectively. 

8. Which one is government base procurement website in Bangladesh? 

A) egp.gov.bd 

C) procurement.gov.bd 

B) eprocurement.gov.bd D) eprocure.gov.bd 

21120 Ans: D 

Note: Government base procurement is an online government tender information provider company, helping business across globe in finding business opportunities. Our Tender Portal provide information on E-procurement, public Tenders, Government bids, International Bidding opportunities etc. We help business from all sectors and countries with potential tender leads that help them grow their business globally through Tendering. 

9. Which memory is called as primary memory? 

B) Pen Drive 

C) Rom 

D) RAM 

Ans: D 

A) Hard Disk Note: Memory is the most essential element of a computing system because without it computer can't perform simple tasks. Computer memory is of two basic type - Primary memory (RAM and ROM) and Secondary memory (hard drive, CD, etc.). Random Access Memory (RAM) is primary-volatile memory and Read Only Memory (ROM) is primary-non-volatile memory. 

D) None of these 

Ans: A 

10. The escape sequence "b" in C programming is 

A) Backspace B) Next Line C) Tab Note: In C programming language, there are 256 numbers of characters in character set. The entire character set is divided into 2 parts i.e. the ASCII characters set and the extended ASCII characters set. But apart from that, some other characters are also there which are not the part of any characters set, known as ESCAPE characters. List of Escape Sequences: 

\n 

\t 

Iv 

\b 

\r 

\f 

Newline Horizontal Tab Vertical Tab 

Backspace 

Carriage Return Form feed 

la 

ジンジ 

11. Which one is not operating system software? 

A) DOS B) LINUX 

C) Windows 

Audible Alert (bell) Backslash 

Question mark 

Single quote 

Double quote 

MARU 

TONI SHou) toturi 

Ans: D 

D) Oracle 

Note: An operating system (OS) is system software that manages computer hardware and software resources and provides common services for computer programs. Example: DOS, LINUX and Windows. 

12. Microsoft .NET is 

A) Open Source B) Closed Source 

C) Browser 

D) None of these Ans: A Note: Open-source software (OSS) is a type of computer software whose source code is released under a license in which the copyright holder grants users the rights to study, change and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose. Example: java, Linux and Firefox etc. 13. What is not the kind of data type? 

B) Text 

C) Number 

D) Currency 

Ans: A 

A) Logical Note: Data is any sequence of one or more symbols given meaning by specific act of interpretation. Data requires interpretation to become information. To translate data to information, there must be several known factors considered. The factors involved are determined by the creator of the data and the desired information. 

COMPACTLY DR SOLUTION COMPACT IT SUDONCT TO DO SOURCE ENDED 

TOCOMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

SONGT ST 

MOITUJ08 BOLTI Page | 210 

Question Bank 

DEURER ONONDEDO 

DSOLUTER CEPPACT SY DEUTER COCTEAUTOR COMP 

14. What smart phones are compatible of .apk file? 

A) Microsoft 

B) IOS 

C) Symbian 

nes not MCQ 

1728 SOLVER CENCY TO SCRAPERCOMPACT ST 

D) Android 

Ans: D 

Note: Android Package (APK) is the package file format used by the Android operating system for distribution and installation of mobile apps and middleware. 

A) Design system manual 

15. Hungarian notation is used to 

C) Define name of the variable 

B) Design user manual D) All 

Ans: C 

Note: Hungarian notation is a naming convention in computer programming that indicates either the type of object or the way it should be used. There are two variations of Hungarian notation: Systems and Apps. 

16. OCR Stands for 

A) Optical CPU recognition 

C) Optical character reading 

B) Optical character recognition D) other character reading 

Ans: B 

Note: OCR is the acronym of Optical Character Recognition. PDF documents and image formats that contain text are not text-searchable. By using OCR, they can be converted into text-searchable documents. 

17. Which is the universal gate? 

A) NOR 

B) AND 

C) NOT 

D) OR 

Ans: A 

Note: A universal gate is a gate which can implement any Boolean function without need to use any other gate type. The NAND and NOR gates are universal gates. 18. What kind of image is created in virtual reality? 

A) Three-Dimensional 

C) One Dimensional 

B) Two-Dimensional 

D) Multi-Dimensional 

Ans: A 

Note: Virtual reality is an interactive computer-generated experience taking place within a simulated environment, the incorporates mainly auditory and visual, but also other types of sensory feedback like haptic. Three Dimensional (3D) is an example of virtual reality. 19. How many numerical bits of ASCII -8 codes? 

A) 2 

B) 4 

C) 8 

D) 16 214 

Ans: C 

Note: Character data is represented in a computer by using standardized numeric codes which have been developed. The most widely accepted code is called the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII). The ASCII code associates an integer value for each symbol in the character set, such as letters, digits, punctuation marks, special characters, and control characters. 

20. What is hotpot? 

A) Special Security System 

C) Wireless internet system 

B) Cable connected internet system D) A program 

Ans: C Note: A hotspot is a physical location where people may obtain Internet access, typically using Wi-Fi technology, via a wireless local area network (WLAN) using a router connected to an internet service provider. 

21. While browsing, internet browser stores some data in the computer. Which is called 

by? 

B) File 

C) Memory 

D) Cookie 

A) Session 

Ans: D Note: Cookies are small files which are stored on a user's computer. It was designed to hold a modest amount of data specific to a particular client and website, and can be accessed either by the web server or the client computer. 

22. Which language is used to build website? 

DS FLUTEN COMPACT IT 205 SELUTEN COMPACT ET 308 SOLLTEN COPPACT IT SOLATION 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

BUDOBACT IT 

102 800 T Page | 211 

Question Bank 

B) COBOL C) Python 

#ns noites MCQ 

D) FORTRAN 

A) HTML 

Ans: A Note: The most common programming languages on the Web include Hypertext Markup Language, JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheets and PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor. 23. Which keyword is used in C language? 

A) ing 

B) for 

C) select 

D) href 

Ans: B 

Note: Keywords are predefined; reserved words used in programming that have special meanings to the compiler. Keywords are part of the syntax and they cannot be used as an identifier. Example: for, if, else and while etc. 

24. How many bits in Unicode? 

A) 4 

B) 8 

C) 16 

D) 32 

Ans: C Note: Unicode requires 16 bits and ASCII require 7 bits. Although the ASCII character set uses only 7 bits, it is usually represented as 8 bits. UTF-8 represents characters using 8, 16, and 18-bit patterns. 25. Java source code is compiled into 

B) Byte Code 

C) Object 

D).exe 

A) Source Code 

Ans: B Note: In Java, programs are not compiled into executable files; they are compiled into byte code, which the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) then executes at runtime. Java source code is compiled into byte code when we use the java compiler. The byte code gets saved on the disk with the file extension class. 

26. Word Press can be called as 

A) Static website 

B) Dynamic website D) E-Commerce website 

C) Content Managed website 

braiden Ans: C Note: A Content Management System, often abbreviated as CMS, is software that helps users create, manage, and modify content on a website without the need for specialized technical knowledge. Word Press is an example of CMS. 

Ans: A 

27. Programs that is automatically loaded and operates as a part of browser 

A) Plug in 

B) Add ones C) Widgets D) Utilities Note: Plug in programs are automatically loaded and operates as a part of browser. t wolle 28. The feature in MS word automatically connects correct spelling, typing, 

capitalization on grammar errors A) Auto fix 

- 

B) Auto spell C) Auto mark D) Auto correct 

Ans: D 

Note: Autocorrect options for capitalization, spelling, and symbols. You can use the Autocorrect feature to correct typos, capitalization errors, and misspelled words, as well as automatically insert symbols and other pieces of text. 

29. In database, a field is 

A) Label 

B) Category of Information alpe D) Table of information 

C) Group of related records 

Ans: C Note: Relational databases arrange data as sets of database records, also called rows. Each record consists of several fields; the fields of all records form the columns. In object-oriented programming, befield (also called data member or member variable) is the data encapsulated within a class or object. 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

sizdan blind obseo di ognage daid W 

MOITUJOS BO 

Page | 212 

Question Bank 

BOLAFEN GEPOPRACT BY SOB SOUTER CESSPICY IN ER STATEM GENOMET EN XA GRATER SUNT A ESCAPE IN TODAY 

Anal noite MCQ 

D 

Pubali Bank Limited 

Senior Officer (General): 2016 IT Knowledge 

1. Nibble describes a bit's combination of- 

a) 5-bit 

b) 7-bit 

c) 6-bits 

d) 4-bits 

Ans: d 

Note: [Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), Assistant Junior Engineer (IT): 2019, Q. 14] 2. What is the base of hexadecimal number system? 

a) 10 

b) 8 

c) 2 

d) 16 

Ans: d 

Note: Hexadecimal Number System is one the type of Number Representation techniques, in which their value of base is 16. That means there are only 16 symbols or possible digit values, there are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, A, B, C, D, E, F. Where A, B, C, D, E and F are single bit representations of decimal value 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 respectively. 3. Spot the odd one out among the following- 

a) Linux b) Basic 

c) Windows 

d) DOS 

Ans: b 

Note: An operating system (OS) is system software that manages computer hardware, software resources, and provides common services for computer programs. Other specialized classes of operating systems, such as embedded and real-time systems, exist for many applications. Some operating system are Linux, Windows, DOS and Mac. 

4. is a system of counting using only two numbers 0 and 1. 

a) Network 

b) Mouse c) HTML 

d) Binary 

Ans: d 

Note: The binary number system is a numbering system that represents numeric values using two unique digits (0 and 1). Most computing devices use binary numbering to represent electronic circuit voltage state, (i.e., on/off switch), which considers 0 voltage input as off and 1 input as on. 5. Which protocol provides e-mail facility among different host? 

c) TELNET 

Ans: a 

a) SMTP 

b) FTP 

d) None of these Note: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is the standard protocol for email services on a TCP/IP network. SMTP provides the ability to send and receive email messages. SMTP is an application-layer protocol that enables the transmission and delivery of email over the Internet. SMTP is created and maintained by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). 

Pubali Bank Limited 

Junior Officer (General): 2016 

tortion IT Knowledge 

1. Which of the following is an important attribute of RAM memory? 

and 

a) Random access 

c) Non-Volatile 

b) Volatile 

d) Sequential access 

Ans: b 

Note: RAM (Random Access Memory) is the internal memory of the CPU for storing data, program, 

program result. RAM is volatile, i.e. data stored in it is lost when we switch off the computer or if there is a power failure. Hence, a backup Uninterruptible Power System (UPS) is often used with computers. RAM is small, both in terms of its physical size and in the amount of data it can hold. 

I EN KAAREM COMPACT UI XA KALEEM COMPACT IN KEDDACID SOLUTION COMPACT IT OUTER COMPACTIS 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT ISOLATION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

CODOOMPACT ST 

no 

08 200 

Page | 213 

Question Bank 

2. The primary job of the operating systems 

a) Manage Resources 

c) Mange Programs 

Anes noise MCQ 

NORTE DARS COMPRCY IN 200 MASTER COMPACT FOR SOLATION COPOVICO BUTEENCOMPACT IT 

b) Mange Users 

d) Manage Commands 

Ans: a 

Note: Operating system (OS) manages all of the software and hardware on the computer. The operating system coordinates all of this to make sure each program gets what it needs. 

3. Unix Operating Systems is a- 

a) Multi-Tasking Operating Systems 

c) Multi User Operating System 

b) Time Sharing Operating System d) All the Above 

Ans: d 

Note: UNIX is an operating system which was first developed in the 1960s, and has been under constant development ever since. By operating system, we mean the suite of programs which make the computer work. It is a stable, multi-user, multi-tasking system for servers, desktops and laptops. 4. The file system "NTFS” stands for 

a) New Type File System 

c) Non-Terminated File Systems 

b) Never Terminated File System d) New Technology File System 

Ans: d 

Note: NTFS (New Technology File System) is a proprietary file system developed by Microsoft. Starting with Windows NT 3.1, it is the default file system of the Windows NT family. 5. Data access time depends on- 

a) Operating frequency 

c) Rotational delay 

b) Seek time 

d) All of the above 

Ans: d 

Note: Access Time is defined as the setup time before the actual data transfer takes place. For example, the read/write head is on track 1 but we need to read data from another track or segment. Thus, the read/write head will move to the data block location before the actual transfer can take place. This delay is called Access Time. 

DESCO 

Assistant Engineer (CSE) Exam: 2016 

1. Divide and Conquer method is used in- 

a. Merge sort 

c. Quick sort 

b. Bubble sort 

d. Both a & c 

Ans: d 

Note: Both merge sort and quicksort employ a common algorithmic paradigm based on recursion. This paradigm, divide-and-conquer, breaks a problem into sub problems that are similar to the original problem, recursively solves the sub problems, and finally combines the solutions to the sub problems to solve the original problem. 

2. Dynamic programming approach is used to solve- 

a. Dijkstra Algorithm 

c. Prim's Algorithm 

b. Kruskal's Algorithm 

d. None of these 

Ans: a 

Note: Dijkstra's original algorithm found the shortest path between two given nodes, but a more common variant fixes a single node as the "source" node and finds shortest paths from the source to all other nodes in the graph, producing a shortest-path tree. 

3. Binary search worst time complexity is- 

GROTE BUTOR COPACT IT IS WIDIOCY IT 208 SOLRED COMPACT EOODCOCT DUD OPACT ST XOS SOLUTION COMPACT SOUWEN COMPACTS 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT IT 

301 13 Page | 214 

Question Bank 

BORDOPPICT ET ZOO SOLUTION CEPACT IT XBOUT COMPACT IT DEUTER CEMPRICT IT OUTER COPICS 

a. O(n) 

b. O (log n) 

c. O (1) 

d. O (n2) 

2088 nvites MCQ 

DODO MPACT IT 

Ans: b 

Note: Calculating Time complexity: Let say the iteration in Binary Search terminates after k iterations. In the above example, it terminates after 3 iterations, so here k = 3. At each iteration, the array is divided by half. So let's say the length of array at any iteration is n 

At Iteration 1, 

Length of array = n 

At Iteration 2, 

At Iteration 3, 

n 

Length of array 

array = 7 

Length of array 

Therefore, after Iteration k, 

= 

2 

1/2 

2 

= 

2 

Length of array = ("/2)* 

Also, we know that after 

After k divisions, the length of array becomes 1 Therefore, Length of array = ("/2) = 1 

=> n = 2k 

Applying log function on both sides: 

=> log2 (n) = log2 (2k) 

=> log2 (n) = k log2 (2) 

As (loga (a) = 1) 

Therefore, 

=> k = log2 (n) 

Hence, the time complexity of Binary Search is = log2 (n) 

4. Which is the faster memory? 

a. RAM 

b. Secondary memory 

C. DRAM 

d. Cache 

Ans: d 

Note: Registers are temporary memory units that store data and are located in the processor, instead of in RAM, so data can be accessed and stored faster. Cache memory is extremely fast memory that is built into a computer's central processing unit (CPU). 

5. Which is not Application software? 

a. Adobe Illustrator 

c. Redhat Linux 

b. MS Office d. Open Office 

Ans: c 

Note: Application software is a program or group of programs designed for end users. Examples of an application include a word processor, a spreadsheet, an accounting application, a web browser, an email client, a media player, a file viewer, simulators, a console game or a photo editor. Examples of system software include operating systems like MACOS, GNU/Linux, Android and Microsoft Windows, computational science software, game engines, industrial automation, and software as a service application. 

6. When we browse internet, browser store some data in the computer. We are talking 

about- 

b. File 

c. Memory d. Cookie 

a. Session 

Ans: d 

Note: Cookie (also called web cookie, Internet cookie, browser cookie, or simply cookie) is a small piece of data stored on the user's computer by the web browser while browsing a website. Cookies were designed to be a reliable mechanism for websites to remember stateful information or to record 

SOLLTEN COMPACT ITS SOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB BELLITEN COMPACT IT 208 BELLSTERN COMPACT ET 28 SOLUTEN COMPACT IT DOLLSOLUTEN COMPACTTY IS EDUAREN COMPACT TV END SELLATION 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ис 

WEGACYDOWDCOMPACT SY 

Page | 215 

Question Bank 

insa noise MCQ 

COMPETEY COMELY FAUCION COPPACT BY XSOLUTION COMPACT ET AUSTER COMPACT ET 208 SOLUSTENCERPACT n 

the user's browsing activity. They can also be used to remember pieces of information that the user previously entered into form fields, such as names, addresses, passwords, and payment card numbers. 7. Microprocessor is used first in which generation computers? 

a. Second generation 

c. Fourth generation 

b. Third generation 

d. Fifth generation 

zal yd bobi 

Ans: c Note: The fourth generation of computers took advantage of the invention of the microprocessor, more commonly known as a CPU. Microprocessors, along with integrated circuits, helped make it possible for computers to fit easily on a desk and for the introduction of the laptop. 8. In client server system what does the client program? 

a. Share data with other computer 

b. Serve information to others computer 

c. control others connected computers d. Asked for information 

Ans: a 

Note: A client-server application is a distributed system made up of both client and server software. Client server application provide a better way to share the workload. The client process always initiates a connection to the server, while the server process always waits for requests from any client. 

Janata Bank Limited Assistant Engineer (IT) Preliminary Exam: 2015 

gol andna 

1. What does https mean? 

sarit of 

Yomem ea sa dold W 

MAX a 

34b02 Ans: A 

A) Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure B) Hypertext Transfer Protocol System C) Hypertext Transfer Protocol Service D) Hypertext Transfer Protocol Sense Note: HTTPS stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure. It is the protocol where encrypted HTTP data is transferred over a secure connection. So, HTTPS does encryption of data between a client and a server, which protects against eavesdropping, forging of information and tampering of data. 

Which of the following statements is true regarding Cookies? A) It is stored in web-client 

2. 

B) It is stored in server 

D) It is client-side program 

Ans: A 

C) Each browsing time cookies become reset Note: A cookie is often used to identify a user. A cookie is a small file that the server embeds on the user's computer. Each time the same computer requests a page with a browser, it will send the cookie too. With PHP, you can both create and retrieve cookie values. 3. In TCP/IP model, which one is not a valid layer? 

gus A) Application Layer 

C) Transport Layer 

B) Internet Layer D) Protocol Layer 

gewond se 

Ans: D 

Note: TCP/IP model is a concise version of the OSI model. It contains four layers, unlike seven layers in the OSI model. The layers are: 

Process/Application Layer Host-to-Host/Transport Layer 

CORTEJOR SOLUTION COMPACT 203 OUTER COPACT TY 208 SQLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS ELUCEN COMPACTTY LUTEN COMPACT ITS SOLUTION CORPACT IT ESCLUTTER COMPACT I 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MPACT ET 28 SOLUTEN COMPACT IT DOWNPACT ST 

2 BOLTI Page | 216 

Question Bank 

TES COURER COMPACT TY XOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT BY JOB SOLUTION COMPACT TS JER SELVER COMPACT II XA SOLLTEM COMPACT 17 ) 

Internet Layer 

Network Access/Link Layer 

4. What is normalization? 

A) To Remove Redundancy 

B) To make Database 

nos noted MCQ 

BUY COMPACT TY 

C) To make data meaningful 

D) To make database Consistency 

Ans: A 

Note: Database normalization is the process of structuring a relational database in accordance with a series of so-called normal forms in order to reduce data redundancy and improve data integrity. 5. Which one does run on client side? 

A) PHP 

B) JavaScript C) ASP.NET D) None of these 

Ans: B 

Note: Normally JavaScript runs on the client side (browsers) only. A Developer can also write event driven code on JavaScript which can be execute some function on event and can be run on some engine. 

6. In an Entity-Relationship diagram many-to-many relationship corresponds to a 

in actual database. A) Table 

B) field 

C) row 

D) primary key 

— 

Ans: A 

Note: A many-to-many relationship refers to a relationship between tables in a database when a parent row in one table contains several child rows in the second table, and vice versa. Many-to-many relationships 

are often tricky to represent.sogon 

7. What are the three main types of computer languages? 

A) Machine Language, assemble language and high-level language 

B) Structural language, functional language and object-oriented language GenC) Imperative Language, functional language and declarative language 

D) all of this 

Ans: A 

Note: A language is the main medium of communicating between the Computer systems and the most common are the programming languages. As we know a Computer only understands binary numbers that is 0 and 1 to perform various operations but the languages are developed for different types of work on a Computer. There are three main kinds of programming language: 

Machine language. 

Assembly language. 

High-level language. 

92034 

8. What type of architecture does Skype use while conversation? 

A) Client Server Architecture 

C) Service oriented architecture 

12 

B) Peer to Peer Architecture D) MVC architecture 

Ans: B 

Note: Skype has been transitioning from a peer-to-peer architecture to a cloud. Cloud ensures that Skype features such as group video calling, audio, and chat are. Skype users on some platforms will no longer be able to sign in to Skype. You'll need to access Skype on a supported platform, or use Skype for Web. 

9. The interval from the time of submission of a process to the time of completion is 

termed is 

A) Waiting time 

C) turnaround time 

B) processing time D) throughput 

Ans: C 

Note: The interval from the time of submission of a process to the time of completion is the turnaround time. Turnaround time is the sum of the periods spent waiting to get into memory, waiting in the ready queue, executing on the CPU, and doing I/O. 

TO OUR CERPACT I SOLUTION CONNO SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOBSOLUTEN COMPACT IT IS DUSTION COMPACT IT SOLLTEN COMPACT ITS SOLINERGIPRET TY XI 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

BUD OPACT ID WOODS&CT ST 

Morui02 800 11 Page | 217 

Question Bank 

BELLATION COMPOT BUDOCT 

10. What does DNS database contain? 

A) Name server Records 

C) Hostname Aliases 

deed zones MCQ 

20 BOLAPTON COPSPACE 17 200 SEXUATION COMPACT 200 SOLUTIONCOMPACT 

B) Hostname-to-address records D) All of these 

Ans: D 

Note: Domain Name system not only deals with mapping IP addresses with the hostname but also deals with exchange of information in the server. 

11. Which service(s) is/are related with Cloud Computing? 

A) SaaS 

B) PaaS 

C) IaaS 

D) All of these 

Ans: D Note: The most common and widely adopted cloud computing services are Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS). 12. On which number system computer does not work? 

B) Decimal C) Octal 

D) Hexadecimal 

A) Binary 

Ans: B Note: The decimal number system is used in general. However, the computers use binary number system. The octal and hexadecimal number systems are used in the computer. 13. Two sets are called disjoint if the 

is an empty set. C) difference 

D) complement 

A) intersection B) union 

Ans: A Note: In mathematics, two sets are said to be disjoint sets if they have no element in common. Equivalently, two disjoint sets are sets whose intersection is the empty set. 

14. Which one of the following is the core property of Object-Oriented Programming? 

A) Encapsulation, inheritance 

B) Encapsulation, Object 

C) polymorphism, overloading 

D) Encapsulation, polymorphism and inheritance 

Ans: D 

Note: The main aim of OOP is to bind together the data and the functions that operate on them so that no other part of the code can access this data except that function. OOPS Concepts: Polymorphism, Inheritance, Encapsulation, Abstraction, Class, Object, Method, Message Passing 

15. In object Oriented Programming, a property can be accessed from 

A) Anywhere the project 

C) Parent class 

B) Only from its own class D) Child class 

Ans: B 

Note: In OOP concept, property can be accessed within the class, public property from parent class. 16. Which of the following is not the state of a process in process Control Block (PCB)? 

A) Old 

B) New 

Note: States are listed below- 

C) waiting 

D) Running 

Ans: A 

New 

Ready 

Running 

Terminate Wait 

17. When a new data is inserted into a data structure, but there is no available space; 

this situation is usually called A) underflow 

-00 

B) overflow C) houseful 

D) saturated 

Ans: B 

Note: Overflow happens when we try to push more items on a stack than it can hold. An error is a mistake that is probably unrecoverable. An exception is an error that can often be handled, so the program can recover. 

COMPACT ET 2018 SELASTERS CEPPACT ITS OWEN COMPACT SLATTEN COMPRICT ET JOB SOLIVER CORNICTET 2018 HOLUSTER COMPACT ET 208 SOLLTEN COMPACT ET XUDONACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT BY 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT ED SOLUSTER 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Page | 218 

Question Bank 

7BBEN OPACT IT BARTON COACTIVE SOLUTEN COMPICT 

BELUSTERCEPACT IT LASTEN COMPACT II DA SOLTEN COMPACT ET EN CLUTTER COMPACT SIXDAMO 

maticiones MCQ 

alico COIDADO TROUDPACT IT 

18. To represent hierarchical relationship between element, which data Structure is 

suitable? 

A) Desuetude 

B) Priority 

C) Tree 

D) Graph 

Ans: C 

Note: Tree is a hierarchical data structure which stores the information naturally in the form of hierarchy style. Tree is one of the most powerful and advanced data structures. It is a non-linear data structure compared to arrays, linked lists, stack and queue. It represents the nodes connected by edges. 19. The 

format is usually used to store data. 

A) BCD 

B) Decimal 

C) Hexadecimal 

D) Octal Ans: A Note: The data usually used by computers have to be stored and represented in a particular format for ease of use. 

20. Swap space exists in 

A) CPU 

C) primary memory 

B) random memory 

D) secondary memory 

Ans: D 

Note: Swap space is a space on hard disk which is a substitute of physical memory. Virtual memory is a combination of RAM and disk space that running processes can use. Swap space is the portion of virtual memory that is on the hard disk, used when RAM is full. 21. What is the Hexadecimal form of (2016)10? 

A) 5A0 

Note: 

B) 7A0 

C) 5E0 

D) 7E0 

Division 2016/16 126 

= 

Remainder (R) 0 

126/16=7 

14 (E) 

7/16=0 

7 

0/16=0 

0 

Ans: D 

22. Which of the following is Cloud Platform by Microsoft? 

B) AWS 

C) cloudera 

andoz Ul 

D) Openstack 

Ans: A 

A) Azure Note: Microsoft has a very different vision for cloud services than either Amazon or Google does. 23. Which is equivalent is 1GB? 

A) le+4B 

B) le+6B C) le+8B 

Note: 

• 

1 GB = 1024 MB 

• 

1 MB 

= 

1024 KB 

• 

1 KB = 1024 Byte 

1 Byte = 8 bit. 

D) le+9B 

Ans: D 

24. To convert paper into an editable document, a scanner would employ 

technology. 

A) UPC 

B) scanning 

C) conversion D) OCR 

Ans: D 

Note: Optical Character Recognition, or OCR, is a technology that enables you to convert different types of documents, such as scanned paper documents, PDF files or images captured by a digital camera into editable and searchable data. 

25. The degree of any vertex of a graph is: 

A) Number of Vertices in a Graph 

B) Number of vertices incident with the Vertex 

DD SUMEN OPACT E7 238 BOLLATION CEMPACT IT 208 BOLIFTEN COMPACT IT XD BELUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTEN COMPACT IT IS SOLARTEN COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DE DURDOCOMPACT ET 

MOITU 18 HOLTI Page | 219 

Question Bank 

Sund roues MCQ 

CONTRAD 

UNTER COMPACT II XE SOLISTEN COMPACT IT IS KUUPTION COMPACT XT XES SOLUTION COMPACT IF 200 BESLUTER COMPACT IT AS SUAREN COMPACT BY SOLITION COMPACT BY JUMBOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB BOUTEN COMPACT BY JOS BOLSTERICOMPACT IT 

C) Number of Vertices Adjacent to The Vertex 

Ans: D 

D) Number of edges incident to the vertex of the graph Note: In graph theory, the degree of a vertex of a graph is the number of edges that are incident to the 

vertex. 26. Which bus used to connect the monitor to the CPU? 

D) SCSI bus 

Ans: D 

A) PCI bus 

B) STE bus C) Memory bus Note: SCSI BUS is usually used to connect video devices to the processor. 27. When we subtract 3 from 2, the answer is- 

A) 0001 

B) 1101 

C) 0101 

D) 1001 

Ans: A 

Note: Binary subtraction is one of the four binary operations, where we perform the subtraction method for two binary numbers (comprising of only two digits, 0 and 1). Binary Subtraction: 

0-0=0 

1-0=1 

1-1=0 

0-1=1 (Borrow 1) 

28. Which approach is used in the client server model of the cluster? 

B) FIFO 

C) LIFO 

A) Load configuration Note: By using this approach the performance of the cluster cab is enhanced. 

Pubali Bank Limited 

Junior Officer (General) Preliminary Exam: 2014 

1910 

D) Round robin Ans: D 

DACIA 

1. An organization is granted a block; one address is 2.2.2.64/20. The organization 

needs 10 subnets. What is the subnet prefix length? 

a) /20 

b)/24 

c) /23 

d) None of these do doidy Ans: b 

Note: We need 10 subnets. So, we can go in multiples of 2 (2-4-8-16-32 etc.) 8 is too small and 32 is too big. So, I choose 16. In order to get 16 subnets, I need 24 bits. So, I add the 4 bits to the 20 already and end up with slash 24. 

62. Which of the following is used to transfer files? 

a) HTTP 

b) FTP 

c) HTML 

d) None of these 

Ans: b 

Note: FTP is an acronym for File Transfer Protocol. As the name suggests, FTP is used to transfer files between computers on a network. 

3. The primary job of the operating system of a computer is to 

a) Manage resources 

b) Provide utilities d) None of these 

Ans: a 

c) Provide communication interface Note: An operating system has three main functions: (1) manage the computer's resources, such as the central processing unit, memory, disk drives, and printers, (2) establish a user interface, and (3) execute and provide services for applications software. 

4. DHCP is the abbreviation of 

a) Dynamic Host Control Protocol c) Dynamic Hyper Control Protocol 

b) Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol d) None of these 

Ans: b 

SOLUTEIN COMPACT SOLUTION COMPACT ET X3BSOLUTEIN COMPACT IT JOB SOLISTEN COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT) OLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLUTION COMPACT ET 238 SOLSTERN COMPACT ET JOB SOLLETTERCOMPACT 11 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

02.80 

Page 220 

Question Bank 

ne notes MCQ 

VEEN COMPACT BY JOB SELATION COMPACT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SELLSTER COMPACT ST 200 AUSTEN COMPACT IT ISOLATER COMPACT IN ZOR SOLUNTER CONSPICY! SELITEN COMPACT ITS SOLISTEN COPII CURVES COMPACT E DEUTER CACIB BUDCOMPACT IV 

Note: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network protocol that enables a server to automatically assign an IP address to a computer from a defined range of numbers (i.e., a scope) configured for a given network. 

5. Websites without a database attached to them have which of the following 

characteristics? 

a) The ability to generate data via SQL 

b) Static information using HTML or Java Script c) The need to use TCP/IP as the network protocol d) None of these 

330 200 

e tu davno 

Ans: b 

Note: Static Web pages are very simple. It is written in languages such as HTML, JavaScript, CSS, etc. For static web pages when a server receives a request for a web page, then the server sends the response to the client without doing any additional process. And these web pages are seen through a web browser. In static web pages, Pages will remain the same until someone changes it manually. 6. CPU is executing a program that is part of the Operating System, it is said to be in 

a) Interrupt mode b) System mode c) Simplex mode d) None Ans: b Note: There are two modes of operation in the operating system to make sure it works correctly. These are user mode and kernel mode. They are explained as follows: 

User Mode: The system is in user mode when the operating system is running a user application such as handling a text editor. The transition from user mode to kernel mode occurs when the application requests the help of operating system or an interrupt or a system call occurs. 

Kernel Mode: The system starts in kernel mode when it boots and after the operating system is loaded, it executes applications in user mode. There are some privileged instructions that can only be executed in kernel mode. 

7. Which organization defines the Web Standards? 

a) Microsoft Corporation 

c) World Wide Web Consortium 

b) IBM Corporation 

yatwelle? lo 

wollut edi le did 

d) None of these 

Ans: c 

Note: The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is an international community where Member organizations, a full-time staff, and the public work together to develop Web standards. 

8. Each character on the keyboard of computer has an ASCII value which stands 

for 

a) American Standard code for Information interchange 

b) American Stock code for information interchange 

d) None of these 

Ans: a 

c) American code for information interferes Note: Stands for "American Standard Code for Information Interchange." ASCII is a character encoding that uses numeric codes to represent characters. These include upper and lowercase English letters, numbers, and punctuation symbols. 

9. From what location are the 1st computer instructions available on boot up? 

c) Boot.ini d) None of these 

Ans: a 

a) ROM BIOS b) CPU Note: A ROM-BIOS is an abbreviation of Read Only Memory Basic Input Output System. In PC's the BIOS contains all the code required to control the keyboard, display screen, disk drives, serial communications, and a number of miscellaneous functions. 

10. A hard disk is divided into tracks which are further subdivided into: 

a) Clusters 

b) Sectors 

c) Vectors 

d) None of these 

Ans: b 

ABSOLATTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLATION COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 27 2018-SOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 200 SLATE COPPICT IT JOB SOLUTION CORRECT 

DBSOLASTERN CESPPACT ET DA LUTER COMPACT SOLUTIDCOMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJOG det T Page | 221 

Question Bank 

insa nodes MCQ 

CITES BUT SUITES COMPACT IT JOB SELLSTEN CONSTIT DE BUSTER COMPRCS ET CONDORTBARDOTARMEN STRONY IT AND BALLITOR CENTER OPERACY OF AND HOLLTEN COMPACT IN 108 OUATION COMPACT I DA ELUDEDPACT !! 

Note: Hard disk consist of multiple circular disks called platters which are supported by middle stem (bar) called spindle. Platters are divided into circular tracks and sectors. HDD is block addressable disk, data can be accessed only with blocks of data, not in byte's format. To access block from hard disk, we require <head, cylinder, sector>. Where head refers to platter number (in case of single sided platter). Cylinder is formed by tracks on each platter that is on each other. 

11. Which one of the following represent the binary equivalent of the decimal number 

23? 

a) 01011 

b) 10111 

c) 10011 

Note: Conversion steps: 

G 

Divide the number by 2. 

G 

d) None of these 

Ans: b 

Get the integer quotient for the next iteration. Get the remainder for the binary digit. 

Repeat the steps until the quotient is equal to 0. 

12. How long is an IPv6 address? 

a) 32-bits 

b) 128-bits 

c) 64-bits 

d) None of these 

Ans: b 

Note: An IPv6 address is represented as eight groups of four hexadecimal digits, each group representing 16 bits (two octets, a group sometimes also called a hextet). The groups are separated by colons (:). An example of an IPv6 address is: 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334. 13. Bridge works in which layer of the OSI model? 

a) Application layer 

c) Datalink layer 

b) Transport layer 

d) None of these 

Ans: c 

Note: Bridges operate at the Data-Link Layer of the OSI Model. They can distinguish between local and remote data, so data traveling from one workstation to another in the same segment doesn't have to cross the bridge. Bridges operate on MAC-Layer addresses. 

14. Which of the following is NOT a peripheral device? 

b) Scanner c) Monitor 

d) None 

a) Motherboard 

Ans: a Note: A peripheral device is generally defined as any auxiliary device such as a computer mouse or keyboard, that connects to and works with the computer in some way. Other examples of peripherals are monitor, expansion cards, graphics cards, image scanners, tape drives, microphones, loudspeakers, webcams, and digital cameras. 

Pubali Bank Limited Officer (General) IT knowledge: 2014 

1. Which of the following protocol is not used in the internet? 

b) WIRL 

c) Gopher 

a) Telnet 

d) None of these 

Ans: b Note: WIRL is not a protocol name. The Gopher protocol is a communications protocol designed for distributing, searching, and retrieving documents in Internet Protocol networks. Telnet is an application protocol used on the Internet or local area network to provide a bidirectional interactive text-oriented communication facility using a virtual terminal connection. User data is interspersed in- band with Telnet control information in an 8-bit byte oriented data connection over the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP). 

2. The last address of IP address represents. 

LEUDOPACT TO SOLUTION COMPACTES XUD TO SUDBUDOCT IT IS ELUTEN COMPACT IT FOR SOLUTE 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

LUTION COMPACTED 

UTEN COM FXD SOLUTION COMPACT & DO SUED COMPACT IT 

Page | 222 

Question Bank 

ADD COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION CEPACT IT IS SOLLTEN CONCT AND CARE EMPACT RYA VANEMRICTS TABUREN CONROE ABENDIG 

MCQ 

QUICY ST 

a) Unicast address 

c) Broadcast address 

b) Network address d) None of these 

Ans: c 

Note: Broadcast address is the last address in the network, and it is used for addressing all the nodes in the network at the same time. It means that IP packet, where the destination address is broadcast address, is sent to all nodes of the IP network. 

3. A compiler means 

a) A program which translates source program into object program 

b) The same thing as a programmer 

c) Keypunch operator 

d) None of these 

Ans: a 

Note: A compiler is a software program that transforms high-level source code that is written by a developer in a high-level programming language into a low level object code (binary code) in machine language, which can be understood by the processor. The process of converting high-level programming into machine language is known as compilation. 

4. Virtual memory consists of 

a) Static RAM 

c) Magnetic memory 

b) Dynamic RAM 

d) None of these 

Ans: a 

Note: SRAM (static RAM) is random access memory (RAM) that retains data bits in its memory as long as power is being supplied. Unlike dynamic RAM (DRAM), which stores bits in cells consisting of a capacitor and a transistor, SRAM does not have to be periodically refreshed. Static RAM provides faster access to data and is more expensive than DRAM. SRAM is used for a computer's cache memory and as part of the random access memory digital-to-analog converter on a video card. 5. Cache memory acts between 

a) CPU and RAM 

c) CPU and Hard Disk 

b) RAM and ROM d) None of these 

Ans: a 

Note: Cache Memory is a special very high-speed memory. It is used to speed up and synchronizing with high-speed CPU. Cache memory is costlier than main memory or disk memory but economical than CPU registers. Cache memory is an extremely fast memory type that acts as a buffer between RAM and the CPU. It holds frequently requested data and instructions so that they are immediately available to the CPU when needed. 

6. Bit stands for 

a) Binary information Term c) Binary Tree 

b) Binary Digit 

d) None of these 

Ans: b 

Note: A bit (short for "binary digit") is the smallest unit of measurement used to quantify computer data. It contains a single binary value of 0 or 1. While a single bit can define a Boolean value of True (1) or False (0), an individual bit has little other use. 

7. To check to see if the web server you are trying to reach is available or is down, 

which command line utility should you use? 

a) PING 

b) ICS 

c) Telnet 

Note: [Probashi Kallyan Bank, Programmer: 2019, Q. 17] 8. Web hosting service is a type of 

a) Genetic algorithm 

c) Computer programming 

d) None of these 

b) Internet hosting service d) None of these 

Ans: a 

Ans: b 

HOTDOUTEN COMPACT IT ISOLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB HELLSTEN CEPPACT ET ED SLAVEN COMPACT 17 300 SOLARTEIN 

COMPACT XT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

102 800 

Page | 223 

Question Bank 

Хива пора MCQ 

YES SOLUFEN COMPACT IT 200 BOLLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SELLATION COMPACT BYXOR SOLANTERN COMPACT ET XEN SOUSTER OPOTRUDNOTUSTEN COMPACT ET DU SOLARTEN (DEPACT BY JOS SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOBBOLLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTENCOMPACT IT 

Note: A web host, or web hosting service provider, is a business that provides the technologies and services needed for the website or webpage to be viewed in the Internet. Websites are hosted, or stored, on special computers called servers. 

9. The list of coded instructions is called 

a) Computer program 

b) Algorithm 

c) Flowchart d) None of these 

Ans: a Note: A computer program is a collection of instructions that performs a specific task when executed by a computer. A computer requires programs to function. A computer program is usually written by a computer programmer in a programming language. 

10. With respect to a network interface card, the term 10/100 refers to 

a) protocol speed 

c) megabits per seconds 

b) minimum and maximum server speed d) None of these 

Ans: c 

Note: Data-transfer rate is the average number of bits (bitrate), characters or symbols (baud rate), or data blocks per unit time passing through a communication link in a data-transmission system. Common data rate units are multiples of bits per second (bit/s) and bytes per second (B/s). For example, the data rates of modern residential high-speed Internet connections are commonly expressed in megabits per second (Mbit/s). 

11. When a computer is first turned on or restarted, a special type of absolute loader is 

executed, called- 

a) Compile and go loader 

c) Bootstrap loader 

b) Boot loader 

d) None of these 

Ans: c 

Note: A bootstrap loader is a program that resides in the computer's EPROM, ROM, or other non- volatile memory. It is automatically executed by the processor when turning on the computer. 12. IPv4 address is- 

a) 16-bit 

b) 32-bit 

c) 64-bit 

d) None of these 

Ans: b 

Note: The IPv4 address is a 32-bit number that uniquely identifies a network interface on a machine. An IPv4 address is typically written in decimal digits, formatted as four 8-bit fields that are separated by periods. Each 8-bit field represents a byte of the IPv4 address. 

Sonali Bank Limited 

Senior Officer (IT) Preliminary Exam: 2013 

9 

1. (111111110)2 =(?)10 

A) 256 

B) 511 

C) 510 

D) 512 

Ans: C 

Note: The decimal number is equal to the sum of binary digits (dn) times their power of 2 (2"): Decimal = do×2° + d1×21 + d2×22 +...... 

2 

So, (111111110) z = (1 × 2%) + (1 × 2) + (1 × 2) + (1 × 25)+ (1 × 24) + (1 × 2) + (1 × 23) + (1×2') + (0 × 2o) = (510) 10 

2. 

Elaboration of VIRUS is 

A) Versatile Information Research Under Siege B) Vital Information Resource Under Siege 

C) Volume of information Resource under Siege D) Video Information Resource Under Siege 

quo Ans: B 

GRID SUREN COMPACT ET JOB SOLATER CORONET TTXOS SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTER CINCT IT ON COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT 

DALTEN COM 

SOLUTED COMPACTED ELUTERCOMPACT N 

JOB BOL TX Page | 224 

Question Bank 

Med neder MCQ 

338 BELUTEEN COMPACT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT ETXO SOUTEN COMPACT EZA SAUTEN COPIC TOURER COPPICT VYA TUREN COPIETATUD ORTAYLORIAMBOOPICST IS SLIVECO 

SUED COPACY IT 

Note: A computer virus is a malicious software program loaded onto a user's computer without the user's knowledge and performs malicious actions. 

3. Common keyboard arrangement is called 

A) QWETRY 

B) QWRETY C) QWRTEY D) QWERTY 

Ans: D 

Note: QWERTY refers to the arrangement of keys on a standard English computer keyboard or typewriter. The name derives from the first six characters on the top alphabetic line of the keyboard. 4. Which types of interface allow connect, control musical instruments to computer? 

B) DIMI 

C) DIM 

D) MDII 

A) MIDI 

Ans: A Note: MIDI is short for Musical Instrument Digital Interface. It's a language that allows computers, musical instruments and other hardware to communicate. A MIDI setup includes the interface, the language that MIDI data is transmitted in, and the connections needed to communicate between hardware. 

5. Which one is an application package? 

B) LOTUS C) LUNUX 

D) UBUNTU 

Ans: B 

A) DOS Note: Application software (app for short) is a program or group of programs designed for end users. Examples of an application include a word processor, a spreadsheet, an accounting application, a web browser, an email client, a media player, a file viewer, simulators, a console game or a photo editor. 6. In data communication which device converts digital data to analog signal? 

B) Modem 

C) Switch 

A) Router 

D) HUB Ans: B Note: A modem attached to a computer converts digital data to an analog signal that it uses to modulate a carrier frequency. This frequency is transmitted over a line, frequently as an audio signal over a telecommunications line, to another modem that converts it back into a copy of the original data. 

7. Every web page has a unique address called 

A) http B) Uniform Resource Locator C) Hypertext D) Hyperlink 

Ans: B 

Note: Each web page has a unique address, and this address is called either a web address or a URL (uniform resource locator). 

8. Which type of ROM is used in pen 

drive? 

A) Mask ROM B) EPROM C) CD ROM D) EEP ROM 

Ans: D 

Note: EEPROM (also E2PROM) stands for electrically erasable programmable read-only memory and is a type of non-volatile memory used in computers, integrated in microcontrollers for smart cards and remote keyless systems, and other electronic devices to store relatively small amounts of data but allowing individual bytes to be erased and reprogrammed. 

9. A RAM chip is labeled as "2M x 16". What is the word-size of the RAM? 

A) 2 Bytes 

B) 16 Bytes 

C) 2x16MB 

D) 8 Bits 

Ans: C 

Note: We know 1 bit = 0.0625 word. 

10. Which one is both input and output device? 

A) Plotter Note: Both Input Output Devices: Modems, Network cards, Touch Screen 11. Which one is a layer 3 (Network Layer) protocol? 

B) Touch screen 

C) Printer 

D) OMR 

Ans: B 

A) UDP 

B) DNS 

C) TCP 

D) IP 

Ans: D 

Note: The main functions of Layer 3 include routing and forwarding, as well as internetworking, addressing, packet sequencing, congestion control and further error handling. The protocols used in Layer 3 include: Internet Protocols IPv4/v6. Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) 

12. In most applications F1 stands for? 

COMPACT TO SOLUTEN COMPACT ST XB SOLUTION COMPACT ST 200 SOLUTION CON 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

KOTUJOS 800m Page | 225 

Question Bank 

TBOWDEN COMPACT ET JORDOPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT 

MCQ 

A) Save 

BEBOPACITY DRUKER COMPACT IN ADAMER CROCE AND ALAN COPAYI AND LATER CUPPACT IT JOB SOLISTEN COMPACT ET JOB SOLASTENCOMPACT ST 

DRUDDUTO DOUTEN 

B) Saves 

C) Help 

D) Cut-Paste 

Ans: C 

Note: The function keys or F keys are lined along the top of the keyboard and labeled F1 through F12. These keys act as shortcuts, performing certain functions, like saving files, printing data, or refreshing a page. For example, the F1 key is often used as the default help key in many programs. 

13. Which of the following device doesn't use scanning as a first step in its working 

principle? 

B) Barcode Reader 

C) MICR 

D) OCR 

A) Plotter 

Ans: A Note: Plotter produces the data in hardcopy at a relatively slower rate when compared to a printer. Printer can only print a single line at a time. Plotters can easily draw continuous lines from point-to- point at same time. Printers are mainly used to produce graphics and text on a physical medium such as paper. 14. IN a flowchart, a diamond generally stands for- 

A) Start/End 

B) Decision 

C) Processing D) Input/output 

Ans: B 

Note: Decision shape is represented as a Diamond. This object is always used in a process flow to ask a question and the answer to the question determines the arrows coming out of the Diamond. This shape is quite unique with two arrows coming out of it. 

15. The file extension .EXE generally refers to what kind of file? 

A) Excel File 

C) Executable file 

B) MS Excess file D) Audio file 

Ans: C 

Note: .EXE is a file extension for an executable file format. An executable is a file that contains a program - that is, a particular kind of file that is capable of being executed or run as a program in the computer. An executable file can be run by a program in Microsoft DOS or Windows through a 

command or a double click. 

16. In an email address aaa@bbb.ccc, the portion "bbb" indicates? 

A) Domain name 

C) Domain type 

B) TCP/IP Layer name D) Protocol name 

Ans: A Note: The domain is the name of a network or computer that is linked to the Internet. You can find the domain in an email address after an @ sign. For example, is aaa@bbb.ccc. You can see that "bbb" is the domain. 

17. The type of internet connection might be compared to regular telephone call, in a 

term of its duration: 

A) Baseband 

B) Broadband 

C) Dial up 

D) Satellite 

Ans: C Note: Dial-up refers to an Internet connection that is established using a modem. The modem connects the computer to standard phone lines, which serve as the data transfer medium. After the dial- up connection has been established, it is active until the user disconnects from the ISP. 18. What must do to return compressed files to their Original state? 

A) Extract 

B) Archive 

921 

C) Zip 

D) Delete 

Ans: A 

Note: Extract is a term used to describe the process of decompressing and moving one or more files in a compressed file (e.g., .zip file) to an alternate location. 

19. What does the term SCSI stand for? 

Ans: B 

A) Small Computer Software Interface B) Small Computer System Interface C) Small Computer Storage Interface D) Small Computer Storage Interface Note: The Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) is a set of parallel interface standards developed by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) for attaching printers, disk drives, scanners and other peripherals to computers. SCSI is supported by all major operating systems. 

CODERCET IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT EXOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLLATE COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOBBOLITION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

ио 

ACT IT JOB SORATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLASTENCOMPACT IT 

OCTI Page | 226 

Question Bank 

ESSELLATION COMPACT IT 2018 BOLLUTION COMPACT TY JUD BOLLTEN COMPACT ITXA SOLUTER CENACT IN 2018 BOATER COMPACT TY XIA SOLUTER CEMPACT II XIAN SOMATECA COMPACT IIma 

20. The term dot per inch refers to- 

A) Speed 

B) Resolution C) Output 

Mamb nostas MCQ 

LIVEN COMPACT ID DUD OPODSUD COMPACTED SUIVEN COMPACT ST 

D) Colors 

Ans: B 

Note: In printing, DPI (dots per inch) refers to the output resolution of a printer or image setter, and PPI (pixels per inch) refers to the input resolution of a photograph or image. 

1. CPU, 

Bangladesh Bank 

Assistant Maintenance Engineer 

an oy boExam: 2013 

are the basic components of a computer system. 

a. Keyboard and monitor 

al 

b. Main memory and I/O devices 

c. Keyboard and I/O devices 

d. Main memory and monitor 

Ans: b 

Note: Five basic components of computer system: Input Unit, Output Unit, Storage Unit, Central Processing Unit (CPU, Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU) and Control Unit. 2. At the same clock speed compared to CISC, RISC processor works 

a. faster 

b. Slower 

c. at same speed 

d. none 

Ans: a 

3. The resolution of a printer is measured in 

a. Megabits 

b. Dots per inch (DPI) 

c. Inches 

d. GHz 

Ans: b 

4. For s sorted linear array, which is the fastest algorithm to find the location? 

a. Linear search 

sob. 

of bosimos b. Binary search 

c. Quick search 

d. Selection search 

5. What is the name given to the sequence of steps which a computer follows? 

b. Algorithms c. Flowcharts d. Debugging 

a. Instructions 6. A power system is providing 200 V ac at 25 A. The phase angle between current and 

voltage is 259. What is the power consumed by the system? 

Ans: b 

Ans: b 

a. 2113 w 

b. 4531 w 

c. 5517 w 

d. 11831 w 

Ans: b 

7. A transformer transforms 

a. Frequency 

8. The common collector amplifier is also known as 

b. Voltage 

c. Current 

d. Voltage and Current 

Ans: d 

a. Collector follower 

c. Emitter follower 

9. Negative feedback in an amplifier 

a. Reduces the gain 

c. Is harmful 

que a godis 

b. Base follower 

d. Integrator 

b. Increases the gain 

d. Converts the amplifier into an oscillator 

Ans: c 

Ans: d 

10. The end-to-end delivery of the entire message is the responsibility of the _______ layer. 

b. Transport 

c. Session 

d. Presentation 

a. Network 

Ans: b Note: Transport Layer is the second layer of the TCP/IP model. It is an end-to-end layer used to deliver messages to a host. It is termed as an end-to-end layer because it provides a point-to-point 

20 SOLUTION COMPACT ST SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT XO SOLATION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT MEAN COMPACT T 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

BUTERCOMPACT BY 

Page 227 

Question Bank 

and noises MCQ 

CITES QUITE COMPACT IT IS SOUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JBSOLUTEEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTEN COMPACTES QUENOPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACTTY JOB BOLTS COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

connection rather than hop-to- hop, between the source host and destination host to deliver the services reliably. 

11. Which of the following is a digital modulation technique? 

a. DM 

b. PCM 

c. PSK 

12. A The three major components of a communication system are 

a. Source, data rate and response time 

c. Transmitter, link and receiver 

d. All 

Ans: c 

b. Source, Link and receiver 

d. Source, link and detector 

Ans: c 

d. None 

Ans: b 

13. A frequency range 1 GHz to 30 GHz is referred to as 

a. Medium wave 

c. Long wave 

b. Micro wave 

Exim Bank Limited 

Officer (IT) Preliminary Exam: 2012 

In MS Word, which one of the following options is used to create different formatting for different sections? 

1. 

a. Section break b. Section formatting 

c. Page break d. Page Section 

Ans: a 

Note: In a word processor, such as Microsoft Word, a section break splits your document's pages into sections with customizable formats or layouts. 

2. Which of the following is a series of recorded commands to automate a task? 

b. Outlining 

c. Macro 

d. Status Bar 

a. Auditing 

Ans: c Note: In Word, you can automate frequently used tasks by creating and running macros. A macro is a series of commands and instructions that you group together as a single command to accomplish a task automatically. 

3. Which one of the following is true about firewalls? 

a. It filters network traffic 

20 c. It follows a set of rules 

b. It can be either a hardware or software device 

d. All of these 

Ans: d Note: A firewall is a network security device that monitors incoming and outgoing network traffic and decides whether to allow or block specific traffic based on a defined set of security rules. A firewall can be hardware, software, or both. 

4. In a computer, after the booting process which file executes automatically? 

c. command.com 

d. io.sys 

a. autoexec.bat b.config.sys 

Ans: a Note: AUTOEXEC. BAT is a system file that was originally on DOS-type operating systems. It is a plain-text batch file in the root directory of the boot device. 

5. Which of the following features allow you to combine a form letter with the contents of a database (usually a name and address file), creating a separate copy of the letter for each entry in the database? 

d. Book Mark 

a. Letter Wizard b. Mail Merge c. Document Map 

Ans: b Note: Mail merge is a feature within most data processing applications that enables users to send a similar letter or document to multiple recipients. It enables connecting a single form template with a data source that contains information about the recipient's name, address and other predefined and supported data. 

CTY AND CLARE COMPACT 2T 238 SOLUTEN COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT ET EN SELTEN COMPACTET 2018 SOUTEN COMPACT IT SOLASTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT ET XI BELLATION COMPACT BY 100 SOLATERCOMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

L108 BOLTI Page | 228 

Question Bank 

EON COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT TT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT BY XO SOLASTEN COMPACT TT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 12 

Anal meshes MCQ 

FEED COMPACT IT JOB SEXIVEN COMPACT IT IS SEITEN COMPACT DO SUBCOBACT IT 

6. Which of the following shortcut keys do you use to find a specific word in a 

document? 

a. Ctrl +C 

b. Ctrl+XXc. Ctrl+F 

d. Ctrl +S 

Ans: c 

Note: To quickly find a shortcut in this article, you can use Search. Press Ctrl+F, and then type your search words. 

7. In MS Excel, which of the following can be used to copy only the value of a cell to 

another, Where the value of the source cell was derived through a formula? 

a. Copy, Value 

c. Copy, Paste Special, Value 

b. Paste Value 

d. Copy, Paste, Value foods to 

Ans: c 

Note: Select the cell(s) from which you want to copy the comments and press Ctrl + C to copy those cells. Select the destination cell, or the upper-left cell of the target range. Press the paste special shortcut (Ctrl + Alt + V), and then press C to paste only comments. 

8. Which one of the following commands can be used to create a disk's tracks and 

sectors? 

a. FDISK b. CHKDSK c. FORMAT d. ATTRIB 

Note: Format command can be used to create the disk track and sectors. 

Ans: c 

9. In Windows operating system, what is the shortcut key for printing a word 

document? 

a. Ctrl+Shit+P 

Note: 

Ctrl+P 

Ctrl+O 

Shift+Home 

b. shift+P 

c. Ctrl+Alt+P 

d. None of these Ans: d 

It is used to open the print preview window for the current page or document. For example, if you press Ctrl+P when a browser or any other document window is open, you will see a print preview window of this page. 

t is widely used to open a file in the current software. 

By pressing Shift and Home keys together, you can select all text from the current position of the cursor to the beginning of a line. 

10. In MS PowerPoint, which one of the following function keys is used to start a slide 

show? 

a. F12 

b. F10 

c. F5 

Note: ainmob izasbroid & qu-word of ba Note:Vninmobetobroid a 

d. F1 

F5 

Shift+F5 

Alt+F5 

A Sabine Start a presentation from the beginning. 

Start a presentation from the current slide. 

Start the presentation in Presenter View. 

c. TCP 

d. HTTP 

Ans: c 

Ans: a 

11. Which one of the following enables the mobile devices to access internet resources? 

a. WAP b. ISP Note: Wireless application protocol (WAP) is a communications protocol that is used for wireless data access through most mobile wireless networks. WAP enhances wireless specification interoperability and facilitates instant connectivity between interactive wireless devices (such as mobile phones) and the Internet. 

12. In MS Excel, which one of the following options will you use to show the results of 

the top 10 students in class where the class size is 100? 

c. Conditional Sorting d. Filter 

Ans: b 

a. Sort Ascending b. Sort Descending Note: Sorting the data in Excel is a tool for presenting information in a user-friendly form. Numerical values can be sorted in ascending and descending order, text values can be sorted alphabetically and in 

CEPERCY ST 200 BALLATION COMPACT TYLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOB BELUTEN COMPACT ITS SOUTEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

по 

Page | 229 

Question Bank 

PORCT IT JOB SOLARE DETALJER COMPACT IT IS SOLUTEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTEN COMPACT ET XOS BOLSTER COMPACT ST 200 SOLUTIER COMPACT IT IS SOLARTEN COMPACT ITX 

2028 noises MCQ 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

reverse order. Available options are the sorting by color and font, in random order, according to several conditions. Columns and rows are sorted. 

13. Which one of the following tools is used in Business intelligence? 

a. OLAP b. Data mining 

c. Web mining 

d. All of these 

Ans: d Note: OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) is the technology behind many Business Intelligence (BI) applications. OLAP is a powerful technology for data discovery, including capabilities for limitless report viewing, complex analytical calculations, and predictive "what if" scenario (budget, forecast) planning. 

14. Which one of the following Operating Systems is not a multitasking operating 

system? 

b. Linux 

c. Windows 98 

d. Unix 

a. DOS Note: DOS (Disk Operating System) is not a multitasking operating system. b415. In MS Word, which of the following function key activates the checking? 

a. F7 

d. Shift+F7 

Ans: a 

Ans: a 

b. F9 

c. F11 Note: F7, commonly used to spell check and grammar check a document in Microsoft programs such as Microsoft Word, Outlook, etc. Shift+F7 runs a Thesaurus check on the word highlighted. Turns on Caret Browsing in Mozilla Firefox. 

16. Which one of the following will help you to improve your LAN security? 

a. Changing passwords frequently 

c. Using a proxy 

b. Installing a spyware program d. All of these 

Ans: d 

Note: The authorization of access to data in a network, which is controlled by the network administrator. Users are assigned an ID and password that allows them access to information and programs within their authority. 

Pubali Bank Limited 

Officer (IT) 

Preliminary Exam: 2012 

1. Which of the following devices can be used to break-up a broadcast domain? 

b. Router 

c. DHCP Server 

d. Bridge 

a. Unmanaged switch 

Ans: b Note: A router is used to break up broadcast domains. A broadcast domain is a logical division of a computer network in which all nodes can reach each other by broadcast at the data link layer. 2. Which of the following is a secure way to transfer files from one device to another? 

a. SFTP 

b. SNMPv3 

Ans: a Note: SFTP stands for SSH file transfer protocol. While SFTP is a secure protocol for transferring files, the S stands for SSH or secure shell. 243. Which of the following wiring standards would most likely be used to connect a 

single network node to a switch? 

a. Loopback 

b. Straight 

c. TFTP 

d. FTP 

c. Rollover d. Crossover 

Ans: b 

Note: A straight through cable is a type of twisted pair cable that is used in local area networks to connect a computer to a network hub such as a router. Straight through cable use one wiring standard: both ends use T568A wiring standard or both ends use T568B wiring standard. 

4. A media converter is also known as a- 

D165OLUTTER CEPACT ET SOLATION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT ITS SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOS SOLUTION COMPACTTY SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

SOLUTION CORP JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 2018 BOLLSTEDRICOMPACT IT 

02 800 71 Page | 230 

Question Bank 

COMPACT TES SOLTER COPPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Aneb nobias MCQ 

a. transceiver 

UTEN COMPACT IT IS SOUTEN COMPACT ETXO BOLAVEN COMPACT 17 X SOLATTOR COMPACT 

b. hub 

c. modem 

DODONCIA QUTER COMPACT E DS ELUTEN PICT EUTERCEPACT ET 

d. repeater 

Ans: a 

Note: A media converter, in the context of network hardware, is a cost-effective and flexible device intended to implement and optimize fiber links in every kind of network. Among media converters, the most often used type is a device that works as a transceiver, which converts the electrical signal utilized in copper unshielded twisted pair (UTP) network cabling to light waves used for fiber optic cabling. 

5. Which of the following WAN technologies requires fiber optics? 

b. SONET 

a. POTS 

c. ADSL 

d. PSTN Ans: b Note: Synchronous optical networking (SONET) is a standardized digital communication protocol that is used to transmit a large volume of data over relatively long distances using a fiber optic medium. With SONET, multiple digital data streams are transferred at the same time over optical fiber using LEDs and laser beams. 

6. Which of the following commands can be used to find the MAC address of a 

connecting router? 

a. arp 

b. tracer oute 

c. ping 

d. ping sweep 

Ans: a Note: The arp command can be used to display the ARP table, which shows the MAC addresses and associated IP addresses of connected devices 

7. Which of the following describes an email that is sent to users with web links that 

direct them to malicious websites? 

a. Viruses 

b. Phishing 

c. Rogue access points d. Man-in-the-middle 

Ans: b 

Note: Phishing is a form of fraud in which an attacker masquerades as a reputable entity or person in email or other forms of communication. Attackers will commonly use phishing emails to distribute malicious links or attachments that can perform a variety of functions. 

8. An administrator is troubleshooting network connectivity and would like to view the path that packets are taking from workstation A to server: 1. Which of the following command line tools is MOST appropriate to use? 

b. route 

c. traceroute 

d. ping 

a. nslookup 

Ans: c Note: Traceroute is a command which can show you the path a packet of information takes from your computer to one you specify. It will list all the routers it passes through until it reaches its destination, or fails to and is discarded. In addition to this, it will tell you how long each 'hop' from router to router takes. 

b. 15 

c. 16 

d. 30 

Ans: d 

9. What is the maximum number of IP addresses that can be assigned to hosts on a 

local subnet that uses the 255.255.255.224 subnet mask? a. 14 Note: A /27 (255.255.255.224) is 3 bits on and 5 bits off. This provides 8 subnets, each with 30 hosts. Does it matter if this mask is used with a Class A, B, or C network address? Not at all. The number of host bits would never change. 255.255.255.224 i.e. Binary of 255 is 11111111 and Binary number of 224 is 11100000. Here 1 Represent On bit and 0 represents Off bit. Then how to calculate Host Id. See Here, Formula Host Id = 2^off bit - 2 i.e. 2^5 = 32-2=30. And Net Id is = 2^on bit = 2^3 = 8. That's why Answer is 30. 

10. You need to subnet a network that has 5 subnets, each with at least 16 hosts. Which 

classful subnet mask you use? 

a. 255.255.255.192 

b. 255.255.255.248 

c. 255.255.255.224 

d. 255.255.255.240 

CEMPACT 23 308 SCILLATION COMPACT ET ISOLATION COMPRACTITE SOLTERORITEXASOWER COMPACT IT IS EATEN COMPROT IN EUREN OPACTE QUEDOC 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: c 

WE ACT ET 

801 

Page 231 

Question Bank 

Anal noises MCQ 

TIES BUYER CATT IS SLUDI COMPACT IS BUSTEN COMPACT SY 208 SOLUTION COMPACTTY BELTER COMPACTTY IN SEOULDER COMPACT IT XI SOLESTERN COMPACT & JOS OLISEN COPPICT & DEUTER COMPACT ET JOB HOLUSTER COMPACT IT BOUTENCORD ACT I 

Note: You need 5 subnets, each with at least 16 hosts. The mask 255.255.255.240 provides 16 subnets with 14 hosts-this will not work. The mask 255.255.255.224 provides 8 subnets, each with 30 hosts. 224: = 11100000 in binary. So (2^5)-232-2 = 30. So 30 hosts. 

11. Which of the following standards provides port authentication? 

a. 802.1x 

b. 802.11 

c. 802.19 

d. 802.2 

Ans: a Note: IEEE 802.1X is an IEEE Standard for Port-based Network Access Control (PNAC). It is part of the IEEE 802.1 group of networking protocols. It provides an authentication mechanism to devices wishing to attach to a LAN or WLAN. IEEE 802.1X defines the encapsulation of the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) over IEEE 802. 

12. The network address of 172.16.0.0/19 provides how many subnets and hosts? 

a. 7 subnets, 30 hosts each 

c. 8 subnets, 2046 hosts each 

b. 8 subnets, 8190 hosts each 

d. 7 subnets, 2046 hosts each 

Ans: b 

Note: A CIDR address of/19 is 255.255.224.0. This is a Class B address, so that is only 3 subnet bits, but it provides 13 host bits, or 8 subnets, each with 8,190 hosts. 

13. Which of the following is a commonly used protocol for VolP network 

communication? 

a. SNMP 

b. SSH 

c. DNS 

d. RTP 

Ans: d Note: Real time transport protocol is one of several protocols used with VoIP. SIP Session Initiation Protocol is another important protocol used in VoIP. (Answer edited with correct protocol name (RTP). 

14. What is the subnetwork number of a host with an IP address of 172.16.66.0/21? 

a. 172.16.36.0 b. 172.16.48.0 c. 17216.64.0 d. 172.16.0.0 

Ans: c Note: A /21 is 255.255.248.0, which means we have a block size of 8 in the third octet, so we just count by 8 until we reach 66. The subnet in this question is 64.0. The next subnet is 72.0, so the broadcast address of the 64 subnet is 71.255. 

15. Which of the following is the metric used for OSPF? 

b. Cost 

c. Bandwidth 

d. Next hop 

103 

Ans: c 

a. Latency Note: Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) uses "Cost" as the value of metric and uses a Reference Bandwidth of 100 Mbps for cost calculation. The formula to calculate the cost is Reference Bandwidth divided by interface bandwidth. For example, in the case of 10 Mbps Ethernet, OSPF Metric Cost value is 100 Mbps / 10 Mbps = 10. 

16. Which of the following protocols has similar functionality to Telnet but operates 

more securely than Telnet? 

b. SSH 

c. SNAT 

d. RSH 

Ans: b 

a. TFTP Note: The SSH protocol (also referred to as Secure Shell) is a method for secure remote login from one computer to another. It provides several alternative options for strong authentication, and it protects the communications security and integrity with strong encryption. 

17. Which of the following commands would MOST likely be used to list the status of all 

established TCP connections on port 80? 

b. netstat-aupn 

c. netstat-1 

d. netstat-p top 

a. netstat-p tcp 

Ans: a Note: netstat is a common command line TCP/IP networking utility available in most versions of Windows, Linux, UNIX and other operating systems. netstat provides information and statistics about protocols in use and current TCP/IP network connections. 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

ис 

Page | 232 

Question Bank 

SIDEWDN CEPPACTLY 28 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTEN PICT IT ED SEATER G 

DUD DOT DE CADONO 

kneb nollan MCQ 

DODOMPACT ET 

18. Which of the following ports would be commonly used for FTP traffic? 

a. 23 

b. 22 

c. 21 

d. 25 

Ans: c 

Note: Port numbers 21 and 20 are used for FTP. Port 21 is used to establish the connection between the 2 computers (or hosts) and port 20 to transfer data (via the Data channel). 

19. A reserved set of IP addresses in a DHCP scope is commonly assigned to which of 

the following network devices? 

a. Server 

b. Workstation 

c. Hub 

20. Which of the following classes is the address 208.177.23.1? 

a. Class A 

Note: 

d. Laptop 

c. Class C d. Class D 

b. Class B 

Class 

Address range 

Class A 

0.0.0.0 to 127.255.255.255 

Class B 

128.1.0.1 to 191.255.255.255 

Class C 

192.0.1.1 to 223.255.254.254 

Class D 

224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255 

Class E 

240.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255 

Ans: a 

Ans: c 

21. A new LAN switch is installed with on fiber ports. Which of the following would a technician need on the new switch to allow compatibility to the existing fiber network? 

a. Router 

b. Repeater c. Media converter d. Hub 

Ans: c 

Note: The most common type of media converter is a device that functions as a transceiver converting the electrical signal used in copper Unshielded Twisted Pair (UTP) network cabling into light waves used in fiber optic cabling. 

22. Two networks in different offices have been using DHCP set up for 192.168.00/24. After consolidating the offices networks, they have run out of IP Addresses. Which of the following is the MOST cost effect solution? 

a. Request another class CIP scope from the ISP b. Switch to static IP addressing 

c. Change the subnet mask to 255.255.254.0. 

d. Add a router to connect both networks 

Ans: c 

Note: Subnet mask provides security to one network from another network. In an Organization, code of the Developer department must not be accessed by another department. It may be possible that a particular subnet might need higher network priority than others. For example, a Sales department need to host webcasts or video conferences. In the case of Small networks, cost effect, maintenance is easy. 23. Which of the following protocols is the MOST secure for transferring network 

device configurations? 

b. FTP 

c. SCP 

d. RCP 

Ans: a 

a. TFTP Note: Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) is a simple protocol used for transferring files. TFTP uses the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) to transport data from one end to another. TFTP is mostly used to read and write files/mail to or from a remote server. 

24. Which of the following BEST explains the functions of OSI layer 4? 

a. Connecting hosts on the same segment 

b. Specifying signal timing and amplitude in adue 

c. Reliable delivery of packets 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJOR BOT 

Page | 233 

Question Bank 

that noites MCQ 

ACT IT X30 SOLUTION COMPACTTY JBSOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT DT 100 SOUSTER COMPACTLY XD SOUTIEN COMPACT IT AND SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB BOATEN COMPACT IT AN HOUR COMPACT IY 200 POLUTELY COMPACT IT JOBBOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

d. Routing packets across segments 

Ans: c 

Note: Transport Layer provides transparent transfer of data between end users, providing reliable data transfer services to the upper layers. The transport layer controls the reliability of a given link through flow control, segmentation and de-segmentation, and error control. 

25. Which of the following mitigation techniques is MOST effective against a Man in 

the middle attack? 

b. Encryption 

c. Popup blocker 

d. ACL 

a. Authentication 

Ans: a Note: A man-in-the-middle attack (MITM) is an attack against a cryptographic protocol. As the name implies, in this attack the attacker sits in the middle and negotiates different cryptographic parameters with the client and the server. 

26. The task of replacing hubs with switches reduces retransmissions by increasing 

which of the following? 

a. Frequency domains 

c. Domain kiting 

b. Broadcast domains 

d. Collision domains 

Ans: d Note: A collision domain is a network segment connected by a shared medium or through repeaters where simultaneous data transmissions collide with one another. The collision domain applies particularly in wireless networks, but also affected early versions of Ethernet. A network collision occurs when more than one device attempts to send a packet on a network segment at the same time. Members of a collision domain may be involved in collisions with one another. Devices outside the collision domain do not have collisions with those inside. 

27. Which of the following WAN technology types does not use an Ethernet cable as a 

medium for communication and is used for long distances? 

a. DSL b. WiMAX 

c. E3/T3 

d. ATM 

Ans: b 

Note: WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) is a family of wireless broadband communication standards based on the IEEE 802.16 set of standards, which provide multiple physical layer (PHY) and Media Access Control (MAC) options. 

28. An administrator would like to monitor the network to evaluate which employees are using an excessive amount of bandwidth on peer to peer sharing services. Which of the following monitoring techniques would be best? 

a. Stateful packet inspection 

c. Packet sniffing 

b. Load balancing 

d. Throughput testing 

Ans: c 

Note: Packet sniffing is the practice of gathering, collecting, and logging some or all packets that pass through a computer network, regardless of how the packet is addressed. In this way, every packet, or a defined subset of packets, may be gathered for further analysis. You as a network administrator can use the collected data for a wide variety of purposes like monitoring bandwidth and traffic. 29. Which of the following connections methods is considered secure? 

b. RCP 

c. HTTPS 

d. TELNET 

a. HTTP 

Ans: c Note: Hypertext transfer protocol secure (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP, which is the primary protocol used to send data between a web browser and a website. HTTPS is encrypted in order to increase security of data transfer. This is particularly important when users transmit sensitive data, such as by logging into a bank account, email service, or health insurance provider. 

30. Which of the following subnet masks identifies 192.168.7.1 and 192.168.8.1 as being 

on the same subnet? 

COMPACT IT 2018.SOLUTEN COMPACTTY BOLLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 203 SOLUSTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 1 200 SELUTENECOMPACT 17 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITU 

Page | 234 

Question Bank 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB BOLATION COMPACT ETXEB STALTEN CEPACT ET JY'S SCALITION COMPACT IT TO SOLLTEN COM 

a. 255.255.240.0 

c. 255.255.255.0 

Whaß nortas MCQ 

SOLUTER COPPICT TBOWDONCIDENDONI DEVTEENCOMPACT IT 

b. 255.255.255.128 d. 255.255.255.240 

Ans: a 

31. Which of the following transport protocols should be used to avoid retransmitting 

lost packets? 

a. UDP 

b. TCP 

c. ARP 

d. IGMP 

Ans: a Note: User Datagram Protocol (UDP)- a communications protocol that facilitates the exchange of messages between computing devices in a network. It's an alternative to the transmission control protocol (TCP). In a network that uses the Internet Protocol (IP), it is sometimes referred to as UDP/IP. 32. Which of the following describes a routing table that needs to be maintained 

manually? 

d. Dynamic 

a. Hop count based 

b. Link state 

c. Static 

Ans: c Note: Static IP addresses typically have two versions: IPv4 and IPv6. A static IP address is usually assigned to a server hosting websites and provides email, VPN and FTP services. In static IP addressing, each device on the network has its own address with no overlap and you'll have to configure the static IP addresses manually. When new devices are connected to a network, you would have to select the "manual" configuration option and input the IP address, the subnet mask, the default gateway and the DNS server. 

33. Which of the following is strictly used to convert analog to digital signals? 

b. Modem 

c. Repeater d. Hub 

Ans: b 

a. NIC Note: A Modem (Modulator/Demodulator) converts between digital signals and analog signals. Hubs, Routers and Switches use digital signals. 

34. What type of system is Cisco mail platform? 

b. MAC 

c. Windows 

d. Atari 

Ans: a 

a. Linux Note: Cisco Mail combines the immensely scalable Cisco Collaboration Cloud infrastructure, extensible web client, and Linux-based platform. 

35. In Which layer basic packet filtering firewall works of OSI model? 

a. Layer 1 

b. Layer 3 c. Layer 7 

d. Layer 4 

Ans: b 

Note: Packet filtering firewalls operate at the network layer (Layer 3) of the OSI model. Packet- filtering firewalls make processing decisions based on network addresses, ports, or protocols. 36. How the router makes decisions for SQL server database logs? 

a. Call router 

c. Automatic Router 

b. Response Router 

d. Static Router 

37. Which of the following is the number of bits used for IPv6? 

#20 a. 128 

b. 32 

c. 64 

d. 256 

Ans: a 

Ans: a 

Note: An IPv6 address is 128 bits in length and consists of eight, 16-bit fields, with each field bounded by a colon (:). Each field must contain a hexadecimal number, in contrast to the dotted- decimal notation of IPv4 addresses. 

38. Which of the following network components would be used to create VLANs? 

c. Switches d. Bridges 

a. Routers 

b. Gateways 

Ans: c Note: A VLAN is a group of devices on one or more LANs that are configured to communicate as if they were attached to the same wire, when in fact they are located on a number of different LAN segments. Because VLANs are based on logical instead of physical connections, they are extremely flexible. 

39. Which of the following cables is used to connect multiple layer 2 switches? 

COMPACT ET 238 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOBBOLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2010 SOLASTEN COMPACT 200 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT JOBBOLASTEN COMPACTE 25 I 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

QUUED COMPACT ET 

Page 235 

Question Bank 

a. Loopback 

b. Crossover 

SOUTEN COCITY KOULUQLIYENI COMMPROT ET ER ROLLER COMPACT BY SED DUPEN COMPTIANAYE AD ELUENCEMPACY IT AD EQUTELIN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTER COMPACT IT JOB EXUVENCOMPACT IT 

d. Rollover 

c. Serial 

Ans: b Note: An Ethernet crossover cable is a crossover cable for Ethernet used to connect computing devices together directly. It is most often used to connect two devices of the same type, e.g. two computers (via their network interface controllers) or two switches to each other. 40. Which of the following OSI layers handles the routing of data across segments? 

b. Transport 

c. Session 

d. Data Link 

a. Network 

Ans: b Note: Transport layer provides services to application layer and takes services from network layer. The data in the transport layer is referred to as Segments. It is responsible for the End to End Delivery of the complete message. The transport layer also provides the acknowledgement of the successful data transmission and re-transmits the data if an error is found. Transport layer receives the formatted data from the upper layers, performs Segmentation and also implements Flow & Error control to ensure proper data transmission. 

41. Which of the following wireless networks is configured without an access point? 

a. Ad-hoc b. Multiport repeating c. Local 

d. Extended 

Ans: a Note: A wireless ad hoc network (WANET) or Mobile ad hoc network (MANET) is a decentralized type of wireless network. The network is ad hoc because it does not rely on a pre-existing infrastructure, such as routers in wired networks or access points in managed (infrastructure) wireless networks. Instead, each node participates in routing by forwarding data for other nodes, so the determination of which nodes forward data is made dynamically on the basis of network connectivity and the routing algorithm in use. 

42. Which of the following devices will segment a network and help cut down on 

network congestion? 

b. Repeater 

c. Gateway d. Hub 

a. Switch 

Ans: a Note: A switch is a device in a computer network that connects other devices together. Multiple data cables are plugged into a switch to enable communication between different networked devices. 43. A small office home office (SOHO) wireless user reports their new laptop is 802.11b and 802.11g capable but with not wirelessly connect faster than 11mbps. Which of the following is the cause of the problem? 

a. The laptop wireless card is running on a different frequency 

b. The wireless router needs a firmware update 

c. The wireless router is 802.11b only 

d. The Wireless router is defective 

b. USB 2.0 

d. Parallel 

Ans: a 

44. Which of the following devices uses the IEEE 1394 standard? dok smile do suda. FireWire 

c. ISCSI 

Ans: a Note: IEEE 1394 is an interface standard for a serial bus for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer. It was developed in the late 1980s and early 1990s by Apple, which called it FireWire, in cooperation with a number of companies, primarily Sony and Panasonic. 45. Which of the following devices is used to extend the signal strength on network 

segment? 

b. NIC 

c. Transceiver 

d. Modem 

a. Repeater 

Ans: a Note: A repeater operates at the physical layer. Its job is to regenerate the signal over the same network before the signal becomes too weak or corrupted so as to extend the length to which the signal can be transmitted over the same network. An important point to be noted about repeaters is that they do not amplify the signal. When the signal becomes weak, they copy the signal bit by bit and regenerate it at the original strength. It is a 2 port device. 

COCTED DUD OPACITY IS SLATER COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTEN COMPACT TI JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT O 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

мо 

ACT IT JOB SOLTEIN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUCENCOMPACT IT 

02 300 TI Page | 236 

Question Bank 

TO DO SOLUTER COMPACTTY SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT II XD SOLUTEN COMPACT 17 XD SAUTER COMPACT IT ESCUDOVET 

Anell nowes MCQ 

DODOMACI DOUTER COPOT OBDOMPACT ST 

46. Which of the following routing protocols uses As-path as one of the methods to build 

the routing table? a. OSPF 

b. ISIS 

c. BGP 

d. EIGRP 

Ans: c Note: Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is a standardized exterior gateway protocol designed to exchange routing and reachability information among autonomous systems (AS) on the Internet. BGP is classified as a path-vector routing protocol, and it makes routing decisions based on paths, network policies, or rule-sets configured by a network administrator. 

47. Which of the following will list the destination MAC addresses? 

a. arp b. ping 

c. dig 

d. nbtstat 

Ans: a 

Note: The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a communication protocol used for discovering the link layer address, such as a MAC address, associated with a given internet layer address, typically an IPv4 address. This mapping is a critical function in the Internet protocol suite. 48. From where the data is captured in the SQL Server Database? b. Automation call distributor 

a. Automatic call decider 

d. Automatic historical data 

c. Automatic call distributor 

Ans: b Note: An Automatic Call Distributor (ACD) is a telephone facility that manages incoming calls and handles them based on the number called and an associated database of handling instructions. Many companies offering sales and service support use ACDs to validate callers, make outgoing responses or calls, forward calls to the right party, allow callers to record messages, gather usage statistics, balance the use of phone lines, and provide other services. 

49. What is the purpose of data logger? 

a. keeps historical data 

b. keeps all the data for delivery purpose d. keeps automatic call distribution 

c. keeps the code for the tracking 

Ans: b Note: A data logger (also data logger or data recorder) is an electronic device that records data over time or in relation to location either with a built in instrument or sensor or via external instruments and sensors. Increasingly, but not entirely, they are based on a digital processor (or computer). They generally are small, battery powered, portable, and equipped with a microprocessor, internal memory for data storage, and sensors. Some data loggers interface with a personal computer, and use software to activate the data logger and view and analyze the collected data, while others have a local interface device (keypad, LCD) and can be used as a stand-alone device. 

50. What is TEST SYNC? 

a. A testing tool 

c. A tracking tool 

b. A diagnostic tool 

d. A recovery tool 

51. Where the application server is installed for the web server? 

a. Cisco MCS with cisco-based Windows operating system 

b. Cisco MCS with cisco-based Unix operating system c. Cisco MCS with cisco-based Linux operating system d. Cisco MCS with cisco-based MAC operating system 

52. What is the full form ICM? 

a. Cisco Intelligent Contact Management c. Cisco isolated contact management 

Ans: c 

Ans: c 

b. Cisco intellectual connection management 

d. Cisco recovery management 

Ans: a 

Note: Cisco Intelligent Contact Management (ICM) Enterprise Edition-an integral component of the 

Cisco IP Communications system. 

CERSPACT ST 200 BOLLATION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SELLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 BOLLITION COMPACT IT BOLLUTION COMPACT IT AS EARR 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

AFTERNOONG ACY EY 

Page | 237 

Question Bank 

insa kole9 MCQ 

CEBUD COIDADOOPPACT ITS SOLES CONTESQUE COSTO DUTEN COMPACTES EUROC 

7XD SOLARWOEPOPICY IF AMBOLISTION COMPACTION COMPACT ET JOB SOUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTERCOMPACT S 

53. Cisco IOS firewall is aware of VRF. What is the full from of VRF? 

a. Virtual routing and forwarding 

c. Virtual route and field 

b. Visual route and forward 

d. Visual field 

Ans: a 

Note: Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRF) is a technology that allows multiple instances of a routing table to co-exist within the same router at the same time. 

Janata Bank Limited 

Assistant Maintenance Engineer 

Exam: 2011 

to abbid 22 

1. Which is logical operator? 

a) + 

b) >= 

c) AND 

Note: There are three logical operators are: 

Operator 

Description 

&& 

|| 

! 

Called Logical AND operator. If both the operands are non- zero, then condition becomes true. 

Called Logical OR Operator. If any of the two operands is non- zero, then condition becomes true. 

Called Logical NOT Operator. Use to reverses the logical state of its operand. If a condition is true then Logical NOT operator will make false. 

2. What is hotspot? 

d) << 

Ans: c 

Example 

(A && B) is false. 

(A || B) is true. 

!(A && B) is true. 

a) Special security system 

c) Wireless Internet system 

b) cable connected Internet system 

d) special kind of software 

Ans: c Note: Hotspot is nothing but a physical location like a wireless access point that provides internet access to mobile devices typically using Wi-Fi. It allows devices to communicate with each other via a wireless local area network that creates a portable hotspot using a modem or wireless router that is connected to an ISP. The term hotspot is synonymous with wireless internet access. An access point is nothing but a networking device that obtains internet access via Wi-Fi. In simple terms, hotspots refer to physical locations typically public places like cafes, hotels, or airports where users can access internet wirelessly. 

3. Which language is used to build website? 

b) HTML 

c) COBOL d) FORTRAN 

12 

Ans: b 

a) Python Note: [Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), Assistant General Manager (IT): 2016, Q. 22] 4. How many numerical bits of ASCII-8 code? 

a) 2 

b) 4 

c) 8 

d) 16 

Ans: c 

Note: [Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), Assistant General Manager (IT): 2016, Q. 19] 5. What is hierarchical structure of websites? 

a) Home page dependent websites c) Web based communications 

b) link up with each page 

d) link up between two pages 

Ans: b 

Note: A hierarchical navigation structure is tree-like in its nature. The home page is at the top. Underneath it breaks into categories which can be further broken into different sub-categories. 

ICT ETXOS SOLUITEN DE QUEEN COMPACT INPACT TESSUTEN COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ITISOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

SOLUTIONNO 

102 

JOB SOLUSTERN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SALUTECOMPACT ET 

Page 238 

Question Bank 

UTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTEN COMPACT ST 208 SOLUTION COMPACT 17 X SOLSTERN CEPICT ST 

6. How many bits in Unicode? 

a) 4 

b) 8 

c) 

16 

*ins8 moite MCQ 

VDOOTS SUPERCOMPACT ST 

HOURER COPPICT IT IS SOLATER CRICTS IS DOROTEADORES) 

d) 32 

Ans: c 

Note: Unicode requires 16 bits and ASCII require 7 bits. Although the ASCII character set uses only 7 bits, it is usually represented as 8 bits. UTF-8 represents characters using 8, 16, and 18-bit patterns. 7. Which are the uses of Robot? 

a) Complex Surgery Treatment 

b) Verifying the signature of a person 

c) To produce new varieties of seeds d) To make the design of Tennis ball 

Ans: a 

Note: Robots are widely used in manufacturing, assembly and packing, transport, earth and space exploration, surgery, weaponry, laboratory research, and mass production of consumer and industrial goods. 

8. In computer networking system, placement of the computer in different rooms of 

the same building is called- 

a) PAN 

b) LAN 

c) MAN 

d) WAN 

Ans: b 

Note: A local area network (LAN) is a collection of devices connected together in one physical location, such as a building, office, or home. A LAN can be small or large, ranging from a home network with one user to an enterprise network with thousands of users and devices in an office or school. 

9. Which keyword used in C language? 

a) ing 

b) for 

c) select 

d) href 

Ans: b 

Note: [Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), Assistant General Manager (IT): 2016, Q. 23] 10. Which is the general color of twisted pair cable? 

b) Brown c) Black 

d) White 

a) Orange 

Ans: d Note: Twisted pair cable consists of color-coded pairs of insulated copper wires. Every two wires are twisted around each other to form pair. Usually, there are four pairs. Each pair has one solid color and one stripped color wire. Solid colors are blue, brown, green and orange. In stripped color, the solid color is mixed with the white color. 

11. If huge data saved in database then- 

(i) Need indexing to find the data quickly 

STBIGGLE 

(ii) Normally found the data quickly 

(iii) Find the data is time consuming matter ogadors of bored #FJEL Which is correct below? 

a) i & ii 

b) i & iii 

c) ii & iii 

12. What kind of image is created in virtual reality? 

a) One dimensional 

c) Three dimensional 

b) Two dimensional 

d) Multi-dimensional 

d) i, ii & ii 

Ans: b 

Ans: c 

Note: Virtual reality (VR) is a simulated experience that can be similar to or completely different from the real world. Applications of virtual reality can include entertainment (i.e. video games) and educational purposes (i.e. medical or military training). Other, distinct types of VR style technology include augmented reality and mixed reality. 

13. Which is the characteristic of Bioinformatics? 

a) Saving few data 

c) Uses of nano technology 

b) A combination of biological data d) Technology dependent security 

Ans: b 

Note: Bioinformatics, a hybrid science that links biological data with techniques for information storage, distribution, and analysis to support multiple areas of scientific research, including 

THE KLATEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLLETON CEPACT SEX BOLATION COMPACT ET XS-SOUTER COMPACTE ELISEN COMPACT TS 200 SELKED 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOIT 

Page | 239 

Question Bank 

Ans noites MCQ 

A BOLLUTION COMPACT ES ISOLATER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 27 JOM SOLUTION COMPACT SY JOB SOLUTECOMPACT IT 

biomedicine. Bioinformatics is fed by high-throughput data-generating experiments, including genomic sequence determinations and measurements of gene expression patterns. 14. Maximum speed of voice band is- 

a) 6900 bps 

b) 6900 kpbs 

c) 9600 bps d) 9600 kbps 

Ans: c Note: A modem for connecting data terminal equipment (DTE) to a remote DTE via the general switched telephone network or leased lines at data rates of 300, 1200 and 2400 bps using standard modulation techniques, and additionally providing virtual full duplex transmission capability at 9600 bps using trellis code modulation (TCM). The high-speed 9600 bps path is implemented by asymmetrical frequency division of the available bandwidth into a high speed, wideband forward channel (9600 bps) and a low speed, narrowband backchannel (300 bps). 15. Bangla Alphabet in which code included? 

a) BCD 

b) ASCII 

c) UNICODE 

d) EBCDIC 

Ans: c 

Note: Unicode is a universal character encoding standard. It defines the way individual characters are represented in text files, web pages, and other types of documents. While ASCII only uses one byte to represent each character, Unicode supports up to 4 bytes for each character. 16. Which is the Universal gate? 

a) NOR 

b) AND 

c) NOT 

d) OR 

Ans: a 

Note: Universal Logic gates can be used to produce any other logic or Boolean function with the NAND and NOR gates being minimal. Individual logic gates can be connected together to form a variety of different switching functions and combinational logic circuits. 17. What kind of data is "Name"? 

a) Logical 

b) Number 

c) Text 

d) Currency 

Ans: c 

Note: The TEXT data type stores any kind of text data. It can contain both single-byte and multi-byte characters that the locale supports. The term simple large object refers to an instance of a TEXT or BYTE data type. 

18. What is the full meaning of SQL? 

a) Search and Query Language 

b) Simulation for Query Language d) Structured Query Language 

Ans: d 

c) Standard Query Language Note: [Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), Assistant General Manager (IT): 2016, Q. 01] 19. Which is used to exchange alpha numeric data? 

(i) ASCII Code 

(ii) EBCDIC Code 

(iii) UNICODE 

a) i & ii 

b) i & iii 

c) ii & iii 

d) i, ii & iii 

W 

Ans: b 

Note: Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code (EBCDIC) is an eight-bit character encoding used mainly on IBM mainframe and IBM midrange computer operating systems. 

1. 

Bangladesh Bank 

Assistant Maintenance Engineer 

Exam: 2011 

Who among the following is associated with the invention of computer? a. Edison 

b. Babbage 

c. Mac Millen 

d. Rangabhashyam 

Ans: b 

COOPPACT IT 208 SCLUSTER COMPACTTYT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOBSOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTEN COMPACT 17 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT BY 238 SARTREDINGT 

COMOTE SOUTER COMPACT IT SOLUTEN PACT IT IS SOLD 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ис 

Page | 240 

Question Bank 

Nna noiteou 

MCQ 

ESSELAGEN COMPACT SY JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT YOUSTEN CEPACT IT OR HOUTEN CEPACT IT JOB SOLUTION-COMPACT STED SUPER COPPICETTA SOURER-COMPACT I HEDONCIDQDORIDOS GIBRETOPACT IT 

2. Which is the best choice for specification for a video card? 

a. AGP b. SCSI 

c. PGA 

d. SCASI 

3. What are the four key functions of a computer system? 

Ans: a 

a. input, processing, output & storage b. keyboard, display, memory & disk drive c. bits, bytes, words & OSI d. word processing, spreadsheets & database Ans: a 

4. IRQ1 is commonly assigned to 

a. It's usually open 

c. Real time clock 

b. System timer d. Keyboard 

Ans: d 

b or bazu 

a. Laser beam 

b. Electron beam 

5. What is different between AT & ATX power supplies? 

a. They are identical except their shape b. AT supplies use a single P1 power connector while ATX use P8 & P9 c. AT supplies use P8 & P9 while ATX use a single P1 power connector d. AT power supplies run 120V AC current while ATX use 220V AC 6. From what location are the 1st computer instructions available on boot up? 

a. ROM BIOS 

b. CPU 

c. boot.ini 

d. CONFIG.SYS 

7. A hard disk is divided into tracks which are further subdivided into 

b. Sectors 

a. Clusters 8. CRT monitor produce image by 

9. Monitor image is refreshed at least 

Ans: c 

Ans: a 

c. 

c. Vectors 

d. Heads 

Ans: b 

250 10 Teller uds zi zid 

c. Light beam 

d. ink jet 

Ans: b 

a. 1 times/sec 

b. 50 times/sec 

c. 60 time/sec 

обальт 

d. 100 times/sec 

Ans: c 

10. A page fault occurs 

a. When the page is not in the memory 

b. When the page is in the 

memory 

Ans: a 

c. When the process inters into the blocked state d. When the process is in the ready state Note: A page fault occurs when a program attempts to access a block of memory that is not stored in the physical memory, or RAM. The fault notifies the operating system that it must locate the data in virtual memory, then transfer it from the storage device, such as an HDD or SSD, to the system RAM. 11. Multiprogramming systems_ 

a. Are easier to develop than single programming system 

b. Execute each job faster 

A 

dellistes or b 

c. Execute more jobs in the same time 

aba 

010 

Ans: c 

d. Are used only on large mainframe computers. 

12. DIP stands for 

a. Developer Induction Printer 

c. Durable Iclonic Plastic 

b. Dual Inline Package 

d. Dual Independent 

d. IDE 

13. What type of interface has the fastest data transfer? 

a. Parallel 

b. Serial 

c. SCSI 

Ans: b 

Ans: b 

14. Which of the following file name extension suggests that the file is backup of another 

file? 

RCT ET 25 BELLATOR COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 GOLLATION COMPACTT ES ELUTTER COMPACT ET 206 BUNLARATION O 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

SOUTER DOCT 

JEDICEPACT IT 

Page | 241**