**Question Bank 

OFDOUD NOT ON 

a. TXT 

MCQ 

BRUDN COMPACT I 

UTEN COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUSTER COMPACT IN BOLLTEN COMPACT TO SOLUTION COMPACT ET XOS SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOS SOLUTION COMPACT 2T 308 SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

b. COM 

c. BAS 

d. BAK 

Ans: d 

15. "INI" extension refers usually what kind of file? 

a. Image file 

c. Hypertext file 

b. System file 

d. Image Color Matching Profile file 

Ans: b 

16. What is the difference between mnemonic codes & machine codes? 

a. Machine codes are in shorthand English & Mnemonic codes are high level language b. Machine codes are in Binary & Mnemonic codes are in shorthand English 

c. Mnemonic codes are in Binary & Machine codes are in shorthand English d. There is no difference 

17. The software used to drive microprocessor based systems is called 

a. Assembly language programs c. BASIC interpreter instructions 

18. Simplifying the PC configuration means 

a. Disabling the keyboard 

c. Disabling the power system 19. Computer virus is a 

a. Animal 

b. Hardware 

b. Firmware 

d. Flowchart instructions 

b. Disabling the power supply unit d. Disabling some of driver software 

Ans: b 

Ans: a 

Ans: d 

Dlab bas 

c. Program d. Machine 

Ans: c 

q solinom 1 

d. Word 

Ans: a 

20. This is the smallest unit of data in a computer 

a. Bit 

21. What is SMTP? 

b. Byte 

c. Nibble 

a. Simple Mail Transport protocol b. Simple Mailer Transport protocol c. Single Mail Transfer Protocol d. None of These 

Ans: d 

Note: SMTP stands for Simple Mail Transfer Protocol. 22. NAND gates are preferred over other because these 

a. Have lower function area Mac. Consume least electronic power 

23. The direct connection is made between sender & Receiver so data can be transmitted 

b. Can be used to make any gate 

d. Provide maximum density in a chip 

Ans: b 

a. Packet switching 

c. Message switching 

- 

b. Circuit switching 

d. Data switching 

Ans: b 

24. Rules used to establish & maintain communication is called 

a. Dialogue 

b. Protocol 

25. VOID stands for 

c. Agenda 

d. Constraint 

Ans: b 

a. Voice Over Internet Protocol 

c. Variable Optical Internet Protocol 

26. Which of the following does not require a computer for transmission? 

b. Fax 

a. E-mail 27. What medium is used to communicate by mobile phones? 

b. Voice Over Instant Protocol d. None of these 

Ans: a 

c. Webiner d. Video conferencing 

Ans: b 

a. Optical device 

c. LED source 

b. Laser device 

d. Radio waves 

# 

Ans: d 

PACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT SY XII SOLATION COMPACT ET XES BOLLTEN COMPACT 31 308 BOLSTERN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SELLSTEN (ODOPACT SY DOS SELLSTEN COMPACT B 208 SOLLTER COMPACT 28 BOILLEENCOMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOI 

102 200 

Page | 242 

Question Bank 

CTTY 20 SOLACION COMPACT ET 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTEEN COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT ITS SOLSTER COMPACT IT JER BOLSTER CEPACT IT TO SCALPERCEPACT II XO SOLARER CORICE IS SOUTIEN COMPACT ET 338 SELVES COMPACT THE 

MCQ 

WIDGACY DECOMPACT IT 

Bangladesh Bank Assistant Programmer Exam: 2011 

1. Find out the error in following block of code: if (x=100) cout<<"x is 100"; 

a. 100 should be enclosed in quotations 

b. There is no semicolon at the end of first line 

c. Equals to operator mistake 

zalazib of bazu z bodtam amilo doul 

d. Variable x should not be inside quotation 

Ans: c 

2. In C, if you pass an array as an argument to a function, what actually gets passed? 

a. Value of elements in array 

c. Base address of the array 

b. First element of the array 

d. Address of the last element of the array 

Ans: c 

3. Which header file should be included to use functions like malloc and collocO? 

a. memory.h 

b. stdlib.h c. string.h 

d. dos.h 

Ans: b 

Note: The malloc() and calloc() are two library fuctions to allocate memory in language C. To allocate a block of memory, call malloc & calloc. The prototype for this function is in 'stdlib.h'. 4. Which of the following is not a logical operator? 

a. & 

b. && 

c. || 

d. | 

Ans: a 

5. Overloaded functions are 

a. Very long functions that can hardly run 

b. One function containing another one or more functions inside it 

#.01 

c. Two or more functions with same name but different number of parameter or type 

d. None of above 

6. What will be output if you compile & and execute following C code? 

void main() { 

Ans: c 

To doid/7 

A 

const int i=5; i++; 

(50 

printf("%d",i); 

MATH biegian, IMX loogstoszbe 

} 

a. 5 

b. 6 

c. Od. Compiler Error 

W Ans: d 

7. Which of the following is not derived data type in C? 

tana. Function 8. The reference library of Visual Basic books is called 

b. Pointer 

c. Enumeration 

d. Array 

Ans: c 

a. MSDN library 

c. Contents 

b. Help library 

d. Topic pane 

Ans: a 

9. Which one of these lists contains only Java programming language keywords? 

a. class, if, void, long, int, continue 

b. goto, instanceof, native, finally, default, throws 

CEPACT II XINS SALUTION COPPACT IT JETEN CEPACT IT BEATEN COPATE DRAWER DOCYTES SAD ONCE BUEN COMPACT IT) 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Page | 243 

Question Bank 

MCQ 

DEKTID BUEN COMPACT IT IS SUNDA OROTE KUD (OPACT EXO SUTER COMPACT IT 208 SOLLATTEN COMPACT IY 208 SOLLATZEN COMPACT IT JOB BOLLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB BOLLITION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOS SOLLTENCOMPACT IT 

c. try, virtual, throw, final, volatile, transient 

d. strictfp, constant, super, implements, do 

Ans: c 

10. Which method must be defined by a class implementing java.lang.Runnable 

interface? 

a. void run() 

c. public void start() 

b. public void run() d. void run(int priority) 

11. A variable declared inside a method is called 

a. Static variable 

b. Local variable 

c. Private variable 

d. Serial variable 

Ans: b 

Ans: b 

Ans: a 

12. Which of the method is used to display the form as model in VB.NET platform? 

a. showdialog( 

d.show() 

b. activate() c. loaddialog() 

c. ILDASM d. Regedit 

13. The tool provided with .NET framework register assemblies for use by COM is 

a. Regasm 

b. Regsvr32 

Ans: a 

14. Find any errors in the following BankAccount constructor in C#.NET public int 

BankAccount(){ balance=0; } 

a. Name b. Formal parameters 

15. A script is a 

c. Return type 

d. None 

Ans: c 

a. Program of sequence of instructions that is interpreted or carried out by processes directly b. Program or sequence of instructions that is interpreted or carried out by another program c. Program or sequence of instructions that is interpreted or carried out by web services only d. None of these 

16. What is the correct JavaScript syntax to view "Hello World"? 

a. respone.write("Hellow World”); 

c. "Hello World" 

Ans: b 

b. document.write("Hello World") 

d. echo ("Hello World") 

Ans: b 

17. Which of the following function returns the number of characters in a string 

variable? 

a. count($variable) 

c. strlen($variable) 

b. len($variable) 

d. strcount($variable) 

18. One advantage of XML compared to HTML is 

a. XML works on more platforms 

bb. XML is suited to using webpage as frontend to database 

c. XML was designed for portable phone d. XML is simpler to learn than html 

19. PHP is widely used 

web development and can be embedded into html. a. Open source general purpose 

Ans: c 

ful sito doid # 

Ans: a 

scripting language that is especially suited for 

b. Proprietary general purpose c. Proprietary special purpose 

Ans: a 

Asid 

d. <js> 

Ans: c 

c. Open source special purpose 20. Inside which HTML element do we put the JavaScript? 

a. <scripting> b. <javascript> 

ODPO 

c. <script> 

SOLARION COMPACT SOLUTION COMPACT ET 200 SOLLTEN COMPACT EDERICT DUEN COMPACT IT IS EVEN CT ESSCAUTEM COMPACT TEES SCAUTER COMPACT MPCT TO CURENCOMPACT & 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJOR BOLT 

Page | 244 

Question Bank 

ADOROITO QUADR CPACT DR SOLUTION COMPACT ET DE BOLUTE 

FEM COMPACT T 

21. Which of the following is not true? 

Ansä noitas MCQ 

OUTERCOPACT TO DUTERTE BUDOPPACT IT 

a. PHP can be used develop applications b. PHP makes a website dynamic 

c. PHP applications cannot be compiled 

d. PHP cannot be embedded into html 

Ans: d 

22. How do you write a conditional statement for executing some statements only if "1" 

is not equal to 5? a. if(105) 

Ans: b 

b. if(1!=5) 

c. if(l=!5) 

d. if 5 

23. What is a tuple? 

a. Another name for a table in an RDBMS b. A row or record in a database table 

c. An attribute attached to a record 

d. Another name for the key linking different table in a database 

Ans: b 

24. With SQL how can you insert "Olsen" as the "LastName" in the "Persons" table? 

a. INSERT INTO Persons(LastName) VALUES ('Olsen') 

b. INSERT INTO Persons (Olsen) VALUES ('LastName') 

c. INSERT INTO Person ('Olsen') INTO LastName d. INSERT INTO Persons (LastName= 'Olsen') 25. Which SQL keyword is used to short the result set? 

a. ORDER 

b. SORT 

Ans: a 

C. ORDER BY 

d. SORT BY 

Ans: c 

b. Composite keys 

d. Foreign keys 

Ans: b 

26. The primary key is selected from the 

a. Candidate keys 

c. Determinants 

Note: The Primary key should be selected from the candidate keys. Every table must have at least a single candidate key. A table can have multiple candidate keys but only a single primary key. 27. A transaction for which all committed changes are permanent is called 

a. Atomic 

b. Consistent c. Isolated 

d. Durable obta 

28. Which of the following locks the item from access of any type? 

na. Implicit lock fal stb. Explicit lock 

22mm 

c. Exclusive lock 

d. Shared lock 

Ans: d 

Sabile to be 001 Ans: c 

29. In your program you want to use the JDBC-ODBC bridge drive. What code do you Bertin use? 

a. Class.callName("sun.jdbc.odbc.jdbcOdbcDriver") 

b. Class.forName("sun.jdbc.odbc.jdbcOdbcDriver") 

c. Class.callFunc("JdbcOdbcDriver") 

d. Class.Name.init("sun.jdbc.odbc.JdbcOdbc Driver") 

Ans: b 

30. You run a SELECT statement and multiple duplicate values are retrieved. What 

keyword can you use to retrieve only the non-duplicate data? 

a. DUPLICATE 

c. DISTINCT 

ibn 

b. SEPARATE 

d. INDEX 

31. What is entered by the function = today0? 

lab biawol teda ostrof J 

Ans: c 

DQUID COMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJO2 80L 

Page 245 

Question Bank 

CACHADOPACT TY XO SOLVER CONCEDARDONID SUD 

a. The date value for the day according to system clock 

b. The time value according to system clock 

c. Today's date as text format 

d. All of the above 

32. Where can you find the horizontal split bar on MS Word screen? 

nga noite MCQ 

Ans: a 

b. On the right of horizontal scroll bar d. On the bottom of vertical scroll bar 

Ans: c 

a. On the left of horizontal scroll bar 

c. On the top of vertical scroll bar Note: On the top of vertical scroll bar we can find the horizontal split bar on MS Word screen. 33. What happens when you press Ctrl+X after selecting some cells in Excel? 

a. The cell content of selected cells disappears from cell and stored in clipboard b. The cells selected are marked for cutting 

Volcc. The selected cells are deleted and shifted left 

d. The selected cells are deleted and shifted up 

Ans: b 

Note: When we pressing the ctrl+x in the Microsoft excel sheet it means we cut the content from that cell simply means the cells selected are marked for cutting and the user has need to move the content from one cell to another cell. 

34. You cannot close MS Word application by 

21202 

a. Choosing File Menu and then exit Sub Menu b. From File Menu choose close Sub Menu 

c. Click X button on title bar 

102 

36. Which of the following is not a type of Microsoft Access Database object? 

od cuming oat 

d. Press Alt+F4 

Ans: b 

35. Microsoft Access is a 

a. RDBMS 

b. OODBMS 

C. ORDBMS 

d. All of these 

Ans: a 

b. Form 

c. Worksheets 

d. Modules 

Ans: c 

b. Excel 

0 zeto C. Access 

c. 

d. PowerPoint 

Ans: b 

when you press and hold the left mouse key and move the mouse 

a. Table b37. What program do you use to create a spreadsheet? 

a. Word 38. What is term used an/around the slide? 

oagoa. Highlighting 

b. Dragging-aut c. Selecting the word. Moving Ans: b Note: Dragging is the term used when we press and hold the left mouse key and move the mouse around the slide. As we drag, a shadow object shows us where the object will land when we release the mouse button. 

den/ 

tad W bayabonga 

EBEK (Ekti Bari Ekti Khamar) Assistant Maintenance Engineer 

Exam: 2010 Ch 

1. Device that forwards data blocks called packets to individual addresses called 

a. repeater 

b. Hub 

c. Packet Switch 

d. Router 

Ans: d 

COMPACT IT IS SOLITION COMPACT IT BOUTEN OPACTTDONATED DANIDED COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 

LUTION COMPACT BY 308 SOLARTED COMPACT 23. SURCOAT T 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 BOLTI Page | 246 

Question Bank 

ROBONNETTY JOB BULUTZ COMPACT WALTER COMPACT BY FOR WATER CERACT INFO AUTEM COPICTE ERVLASTITUTO TREAT 

Ans notlar MCQ 

Note: A router is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks. Routers perform the traffic directing functions on the Internet. Data sent through the internet, such as a web page or email, is in the form of data packets. 

2. When destination address is unknown to the computer, then where it sends data- 

a. Next node 

c. Default gateway d. Nowhere 

b. Router 

Ans: c Note: A default gateway is the node in a computer network using the internet protocol suite that serves as the forwarding host (router) to other networks when no other route specification matches the destination IP address of a packet. 

3. In 5-4-3 rule, how many segments are populated by terminals? 

a. 5 

b. 4 

c. 3 

d. 8 

Ans: a 

Note: The rule mandates that between any two nodes on the network, there can only be a maximum of five segments, connected through four repeaters, or concentrators, and only three of the five segments may contain user connections. 

4. The maximum allowable length to segment to the 10Base2 is- 

a. 200m b. 185ft 

c.185m 

d. 200ft 

Ans: c 

Note: The maximum length of any particular segment of a 10Base2 network is 185 meters. If distances longer than this are required, two or more segments must be connected using repeaters. 5. The 100Base-FX standard uses as transmission media- 

a. Coaxial cable 

c. Optical fiber 

b. UTP3,4,5 cable 

d. STP cable 

Ans: c 

Note: 100BASE-FX is the technical name of Fast Ethernet over fiber optic cables. It is a version of Fast Ethernet carrying data traffic at 100 Mbps (Megabits per second) in local area networks (LAN). It was launched as the IEEE 802.3u standard in 1995. Here, 100 is the maximum throughput, i.e. 100 Mbps, BASE denoted use of baseband transmission, and FX denotes use of optical fibers in Fast Ethernet. 

6. In order to access the WLAN the terminals must be equipped with- 

c. WLAN adapters d. Nothing 

b. NIC 

Ans: c 

a. Access point Note: A wireless LAN (WLAN) is a wireless computer network that links two or more devices using wireless communication to form a local area network (LAN) within a limited area such as a home, school, computer laboratory, campus, or office building. 

7. Bridges relay only necessary data to other LANs, How? 

d 

a. By IP address 

c. By filtering 

220 but E 

b. By MAC address d. Through physical layer 

Ans: b 

Note: A media access control address (MAC address) is a unique identifier assigned to a network interface controller (NIC) for use as a network address in communications within a network segment. This use is common in most IEEE 802 networking technologies, including Ethernet, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth. Within the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) network model, MAC addresses are used in the medium access control protocol sublayer of the data link layer. As typically represented, MAC addresses are recognizable as six groups of two hexadecimal digits, separated by hyphens, colons, or without a separator. 

8. Which of the following devices relay data through layer 3? 

a. Bridge 

b. Router 

c. Switch 

d. Hub 

Ans: b 

Note: A router performs its functions almost solely at OSI Layer 3. This is because (on modern networks), the router is used to connect Internet Protocol (IP) networks. Since IP is a protocol that runs 

JZED SOLUTION COMPACT ET 205 UNION COMPACT ST 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IN 2010 BOLLUTION COROPRCT IT JOB SEXLASTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLLATION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COPPICTTY 

JEDROOMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Page | 247 

Question Bank 

dnes noites MCQ 

CDRRCTTY XI SQUARER ORATE OUD COMPACT IT 308 SOLIVENOMINAD COMPACT TYXOR SOLITEN OPOTS DE COMPRONTI JAN BOLALETOWN COMPACT IT IN SCALATION CONNECT BY 208 SOLUTION COMPACT 5 XS SOUTEN COMPACT IT XOS SOLSTEEN COMPACT ET 308 SOLSTENCOMPACT IT 

at OSI Layer 3 and can operate on multiple Layer 1 and 2 technologies, a router is typically used to connect geographically dispersed parts of a network that use technologies other than Ethernet to connect them; for example, leased line, Frame Relay, or Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) connected devices/offices. 

9. Which SHUTDOWN option requires instance recovery when the database is started 

the next time? 

a. SHUTDOWN IMMIDIATE 

b. SHUTDOWN TRANSACTIONAL 

d. SHUTDOWN ABORT 

c. SHUTDOWN NORMAL 

Ans: d Note: The SHUTDOWN ABORT proceeds with the fastest possible shutdown of the database. However, it requires instance recovery on the next database startup. 

10. Which protocol is used for downloading message into client machine from server? 

a. SMTP 

b. POP3 

c. IMAP 

d. Both b & c 

Ans: d Note: IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) - Is a standard protocol for accessing e-mail from your local server. IMAP is a client/server protocol in which e-mail is received and held for you by your Internet server. As this requires only a small data transfer this works well even over a slow connection such as a modem. Only if you request to read a specific email message will it be downloaded from the 

server. 

The POP (Post Office Protocol 3) protocol provides a simple, standardized way for users to access mailboxes and download messages to their computers. 

11. When two or more intranets are connected to each other they form a/an 

b. Intranet 

c. Extranet 

d. VPN 

a. Internet 

Ans: c Note: An extranet is a communications network based on common internet protocols including the Transport Control Protocol and the Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and typically used for information sharing. An extranet differs from an internet website in that access to the extranet is restricted to individual users possessing the appropriate login credentials. 

12. What is the subnetwork address for a host with the IP address 201.100.5.68/28? 

a. 201.100.5.0 

c. 201.100.5.64 

b. 201.100.5.31 d. 201.100.5.65 

11000 829197 

Ans: c 

Note: Using the subnet mask prefix value 28, 4 bits are left for host portion. Total number of hosts are 16 (2 are reserved for Network and Broadcast in each sub network). 201.100.5.68 host will reside in sub network 201.100.5.64. Valid Hosts in this network are 201.100.5.65 to 201.100.5.79. 13. Which OS is considered as open Source OS? 

a. Windows XP b. Linux 

c. MS DOS 

d. OS2 

ebb H Ans: b Note: Linux is the best-known and most-used open source operating system. As an operating system, Linux is software that sits underneath all of the other software on a computer, receiving requests from those programs and relaying these requests to the computer's hardware. 14. Which of the following memory have the shortest access time? 

a. Magnetic memory 

c. Cache memory 

b. Hard disk d. Magnetic bubble 

Ans: c 

703 

Note: Cache memory is an extremely fast memory type that acts as a buffer between RAM and the CPU. It holds frequently requested data and instructions so that they are immediately available to the CPU when needed. Cache memory is used to reduce the average time to access data from the Main 

memory. 

15. Content of the memory get lost when power goes off? 

a. Volatile 

OROTA BUDO 

b. Nonvolatile 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DEPACT IT JOB SOLUNTEER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTEN COMPACT IT IS SELUTED COMPACT IN DODOPPACT IT 

MOITUJO2 Bot TX Page | 248 

" 

Question Bank 

POTTED SOLLTEN COMPACTTY JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB BOLLUTION COMPACT 17 203 BOLLUTEN 

insa noites MCQ 

SEDOPACT IT 

c. Destructive 

d. Nondestructive 

Ans: a 

Note: RAM is often referred to as volatile memory, because anything contained in RAM is considered lost when a computer is switched off. Indeed, all data is lost from RAM when the power supply is disconnected; so it is volatile in this context. 

16. Which of the following types of connections can use full duplex? 

a. Hub to Hub 

c. Host to Host 

b. Switch to Switch d. Switch to Hub 

Ans: b 

Note: Hubs cannot run full-duplex Ethernet. Full duplex must be used on a point-to-point connection between two devices capable of running full duplex. Switches and hosts can run full duplex between each other, but a hub can never run full duplex. 

b. Lease line C. LAN 

d. Intranet 

17. A private network that is contain within enterprise and consists many interlinked 

local area network and also use leased lines in the wide area network is called- a. Internet 

Ans: b 

Note: An intranet may also consist of many interlinked local area networks (LANS) as well as leased lines in the wide area network (WAN). It uses TCP/IP, HTTP, and other Internet protocols (IP). Typically, an intranet includes connections through one or more gateway computers to the outside Internet. 

18. A set of related programs located at a network gateway server that protects the 

resources private network from users to other networks also is- 

b. Gateway server 

c. Proxy server 

a. Firewall 

d. DNS Ans: a Note: A firewall is a network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules. A firewall typically establishes a barrier between a trusted network and an untrusted network, such as the Internet. 19. How many bits need to identify an IP address in IPv4? 

a. 16 

b. 32 

c. 128 

d. 48 

Ans: b 

Note: IPv4 uses a 32-bit address space which provides 4,294,967,296 (232) unique addresses, but large blocks are reserved for special networking methods. 

20. A unit of data that is routed between an origin and a destination on the internet is 

called- 

a. Frame 36 mm b. Packet 

a 

c. Data did. Information 

Ans: b 

Note: A packet is the unit of data that is routed between an origin and a destination on the Internet or any other packet-switched network. 

Dutch Bangla Bank Limited 

Assistant Officer 

ATM Help Desk: 2009 

1. Pixel of a color monitor consists of 3 color dots. The colors are- 

a) red, green, blue 

blue916 

c) red, green, black 

b) cyan, magenta, black 

d) black, white, green 

Ans: a 

Note: On color monitors, each pixel is actually composed of three dots - a red, a blue, and a green one. Ideally, the three dots should all converge at the same point, but all monitors have some convergence error that can make color pixels appear fuzzy. 

3 ST 25 BELUTEN COPATIAS QUE COMPACT IT 208 SOLIFTEEN COMPACT BF 208 SOLUNTEN COMPACT IT ER SKUTER COMPACTED SUREN CONCITYAN BOLAMEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DAMEPICTS 

GOT 

SUPER CORPICTED BUDOMPACT IT 

MOITUJOS 800T Page | 249 

S 

Question Bank 

Ans noites M 

MCQ 

GENERACT IT IS ELUVEN COMPACT IN JOUTER COMPACT IT JOB BOLLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT TY XOM SOUTEN COMPACT BY JOS BOLLITEON COMPACT IT JOBS BOLTON COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUSTERN COMPACT IT XOS SOLLTENCOMPACT IT 

2. Which of the following components has the highest failure risk? 

a) Hard Disk 

b) Compact Disk 

c) Magnetic tape 

Note: [Pubali Bank Limited, Junior Officer (General): 2016, Q. 01] 

d) RAM 

3. When you start your computer than which component works first? 

c) Hard Disk d) RAM 

a) BIOS b) Processor Note: [Sonali Bank Limited, Assistant Engineer (IT): 2016, Q. 15] 4. Data transfer rate of a Dial-up Modem is measured in- 

a) Mbps 

b) Kbps 

c) Tbps 

d) Gbps 

Ans: d 

Ans: a 

Ans: b 

Note: Kbps stands for "kilobits per second," while Mbps stands for "megabits per second." Because one megabit is equal to 1,000 kilobits, 1 Mbps is 1000 times faster than 1 Kbps. Important: The lowercase "b" in Kbps and Mbps means "bit," not byte. One byte is equal to eight bits. 

5. Which Memory device has highest speed of access? 

a) RAM b) Cache 

c) Hard Disk d) CD 

Ans: b 

Note: Fastest memory is cache memory. Registers are temporary memory units that store data and are located in the processor, instead of in RAM, so data can be accessed and stored faster. Cache memory is extremely fast memory that is built into a computer's central processing unit. 6. Anti-virus software is a (an)- 

a) system software 

b) application software 

d) communication software 

152 A 81 

119 

c) utility software 

Ans: c 

Note: Antivirus software is a program or set of programs that are designed to prevent, search for, detect, and remove software viruses, and other malicious software like worms, trojans, adware, and 

more. 

7. Disk De-fragmentation is used to- 

a. clean virus 

c. checks bad sectors 

bi of 

b. format a disk 

d. rearranges files in a disk 

d 

Ans: d 

Note: Microsoft Drive Optimizer (formerly Disk Defragmenter) is a utility in Microsoft Windows designed to increase data access speed by rearranging files stored on a disk to occupy contiguous storage locations, a technique called defragmentation. 

8. A CD-ROM drive is labeled with 52x, here 52x is a measurement of- 

a. data transfer rate 

c. capacity of the CD 

b. revolution per mites from comb 

d. time required formed 

Bieg A calok 

Ans: a 

Note: The data transfer rate (DTR) is the amount of digital data that is moved from one place to another in a given time. The data transfer rate can be viewed as the speed of travel of a given amount of data from one place to another. 

9. Which Protocol is used for the Internet access? 

b. Novel Network 

c. Net BUEI 

d. Linux 

a. TCP/IP 

Ans: a Note: TCP/IP stands for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, which is a set of networking protocols that allows two or more computers to communicate. The Defense Data Network, part of the Department of Defense, developed TCP/IP, and it has been widely adopted as a networking standard. 

10. BIOS is a- 

a. Hardware 

b. Software c. Firmware 

d. Human ware 

Note: [Sonali Bank Limited, Assistant Engineer (IT): 2016, Q. 16] 

BEBOOTEDQOLUTION COMPACT DUTEN COMPACTITUD COMPACT IT PUDONATE 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: c 

TENCERACT BEER CENTERPACT IT 

Page | 250 

Question Bank 

QUEEN COMPACT ET SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLATER COMPACT IT XB SELITEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLATER COMPACT TS XE SOLUTION 

11. UPS stand for- 

Man& nos MCQ 

DEN COMPACT ET 200 SCALTER COMPACT TOUT COMPACT S XS SAUTERCOMPACT IT 

a. United Power Supply 

c. Ultra-Power Supply 

b. Uninterruptible Power Supply d. Universal Power Supply 

Ans: b 

Note: An uninterruptible power supply or uninterruptible power source (UPS) is an electrical apparatus that provides emergency power to a load when the input power source or mains power fails. 12. E-Commerce stands for- 

a. Election Commerce 

c. Electronic Commerce 

b. Enhanced Commerce 

d. Economic Commerce 

Ans: c 

Note: Electronic commerce or e-commerce (sometimes written as e-Commerce) is a business model that lets firms and individuals buy and sell things over the internet. Business to business. Business to consumer. Consumer to consumer. Consumer to business. 

13. In MS-Word application package, you can produce same letter for different persons 

by using- 

a. mail merge 

b. equation 

c. formula 

d. table 

Ans: a 

Note: [Exim Bank Limited, Officer (IT): 2012, Q.05] 14. Which one is not an e-mail software? 

a. Eudora b. Outlook c. Colypso 

d. Netscape 

Note: Eudora, Outlook and Netscape is an email software. 

15. If you format a disk then- 

a. folders will be lost 

c. software will be lost 

b. files' will be lost 

d. everything will be lost 

Ans: c 

Ans: d 

Note: "You need to format the disk in drive before you can use it. Do you want to format it?" Obviously you don't want to format it as that means you lose all the data. 

16. Which one is not an Internet Search Engine? 

a. Yahoo b. Google c. Compact 

d. Hotmail 

Ans: c 

Note: Some Internet search engine: Google, Bing, Baidu, Yahoo!, Hotmail, Yandex, Ask.com and DuckDuckGo. 

17. Which one is not a picture file extension? 

a. .gps b. .gif 

c. .jpeg 

Note: Some picture file extension is given below: 

d. .bmp 

JPEG (or JPG) - Joint Photographic Experts Group 

PNG - Portable Network Graphics 

GIF-Graphics Interchange Format 

Ans: a 

TIFF - Tagged Image File 

PSD - Photoshop Document 

BMP-Bitmap Image file 

to 

18. Which of the following indicates the code top level domain of Bangladesh? 

a..bd 

b..com 

c. .bol 

d. .bmp 

Ans: a 

Note: .bd is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for Bangladesh. Generic top-level domains (formerly Categories) initially consisted of gov, edu, com, mil, org and net. 19. Which one is a font file extension? 

a. .ctf 

b..ttf 

CEPPACT BY YED BED DOCTE 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

c. .doc 

d. .pdf 

Ans: b 

WATER COMPACTADWORD 

DOWBOOMPACT 17 

MOIT 

102 801 Page | 251 

Question Bank 

TRDOWIEN CITIT IS SOLUTEN COMPACTLY OR SOLUTION COMPACT STX 

PACT IT IS OUTDODPACT IT JOB SOLUND 

insa noites MCQ 

LITER COMPACT TT 208 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SCLUSTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

Note: Font files contain one or more fonts that can be accessed by the operating system and applications. Common font file extensions include .OTF(Open Type Font), .TTF(TrueType Font), and .FNT(Windows Font File). 

20. Scanner is a (an)- 

a. output device 

c. input output device 

b. input device d. memory device 

Ans: b 

Note: A scanner is an input device that scans documents such as photographs and pages of text. When a document is scanned, it is converted into a digital format. Most scanners are flatbed devices, which means they have a flat scanning surface. This is ideal for photographs, magazines, and various documents. 

21. Suppose the value of cell E5 in MS-Excel sheet is 3500. If we apply the formula =IF 

(E5<20000, E5 * 10%, E5 20%), what will be the result? a. 350 

b. 3500 

c. 700 

d. 500 

Cine Ans: a Note: We put a value 3500 in E5 cell. Then we apply a formula =IF(E5<20000, E5*E520%). This formula calculates if value in E5 is less than 20000 is true then multiply the value in E5 i.e., 3500 with 10%. But if the condition is false the multiply the value in E5 with 20%. Thus 3000 is less than 20000 so we multiply (3500*10%) = 350. 

22. Which one of the following programming languages is not a high level language? 

a. FORTRAN 

b. C++ 

c. Java 

d. Python 

Ans: a Note: Many types of high-level language exist and are in common use today, including: Python, Java, C++, C#, Visual Basic and JavaScript. 

23. How many keys are available in the Numerical key pad of a standard keyboard? 

a. 20 

b. 15 

c. 17 

d. 13 

Ans: c Note: A numeric keypad, number pad, numpad, or ten keys, is the palm-sized, 17-key section of a standard computer keyboard, usually on the far right. It provides calculator-style efficiency for entering numbers. 

24. Which one is a Utility Software? 

a. MS Word 

b. MS Excel c. McAfee 

d. Windows 98 

Ans: c 

Note: Utility software helps to manage, maintain and control computer resources. Examples of utility programs are antivirus software (McAfee), backup software and disk tools. A device driver is a computer program that controls a particular device that is connected to your computer. 25. Bluetooth operations use- 

a. magnetic technology 

c laser technology 

b. optical technology d. radio technology 

Ans: d 

Note: Bluetooth is a wireless technology standard used for exchanging data between fixed and mobile devices over short distances using short-wavelength UHF radio waves in the industrial, scientific and medical radio bands, from 2.402 GHz to 2.480 GHz, and building personal area networks (PANs). 26. To connect two Ethernet LAN segments with different Network DS, which type of 

device is required? 

b. Bridge 

c. Router 

d. None of the above 

Ans: c 

a Repeater Note: The router forwards data packets along networks. It is connected to at least two networks, commonly two LANS or WANS or a LAN and its ISP's network. Routers are located at gateways, the places where two or more networks connect. 

27. POST means- 

SOLUFER COMPACT SOLATION CONCEITES BOUTEN COMPACT EXSCLAVEN COMPACT ET XIS SOLUTE CORPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOBSLUTEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

AUTER COMPACT INTERCOMPACT ST 30 SEALSTENCOMPACT n 

MO 

Page 252 

Question Bank 

WTBAMB COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT RT 2D SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLISTEN COMPACTLY JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT TY X 

a. Proper Operating Service Terminal 

c. Post Office Sale Terminal 

2n68 wat MCQ 

KENDRATE DO SOLAREN CONCT BY XS SELVATION CROTOUREN CAPACETE DODOROTARDORI 

b. Point of Sale Terminal 

d. None of the above 

Ans: d 

Note: POST (Power-On Self-Test) is the diagnostic testing sequence that a computer's basic input/output system (or "starting program") runs to determine if the computer keyboard, random access memory, disk drives, and other hardware are working correctly. 

28. A varsity campus has hundreds of computers and they were interconnected using 

Windows Operating System. What type of network is it? tana. CAN 

b. LAN 

C. MAN 

d. WAN 

Ans: b 

Note: A local-area network (LAN) connects the computer hardware in a localized area such as an office, varsity campus or home. Typically, LANs use wired connections to link the computers to each other and to a variety of peripheral devices such as printers. 

29. The IP address 125.111.5.4 belongs to which of the following class- 

a. Class B 

b. Class C c. Class A 

Note: [Pubali Bank Limited, Officer (IT): 2012, Q. 19] 

30. Which one is not an extension of compressed file? 

b).rar 

c) .tar 

d. None of the above 

Ans: c 

d).zip 

Ans: a 

a) .bin Note: A compressed file is any file that contains one or more files or directory that is smaller than their original file size. Common compressed file extensions are .ZIP, .RAR, .ARJ, .TAR etc. 

31. In Bangladesh, BTRC provides bandwidth of internet services through submarine cable network. Which of the following submarine cables networks is connected with Bangladesh? 

a. SEA-ME-WE 

elecb. FLAG 

d. C2C North Ring 

c. Southern Cross Cable 

Ans: a Note: There are now two submarine cables landing in Bangladesh: SEA-ME-WE 4 (SMW4) and SEA-ME-WE 5 (SMW5), at Cox's Bazaar cable landing station and Kuakata cable landing station respectively. Both SMW4 and SMW5 are built and owned by Bangladesh Submarine Cable Company (BSCCL). 

32. Which of the following banking transactions is possible through ATM booth used in 

Bangladesh Banks? 

a. Withdrawing cash 

c. Remittance transfer 431 

b. Initiate L/C application 

d. Foreign exchange rate inquiry 

Ans: a 

Note: Apart from cash withdrawal and checking account balance, ATMs today offer multiple facilities for the convenience of bank customers. 33. All the Banking ATMs accept- 

a. only charge card 

c. only credit card 

34. ATM stands for- 

a. Automatic Taka Machine c. Automated Teller Machine 

b. only debit card. 

d. both debit card and credit card 

Ans: d 

b. Automatic Teller Machine d. Automatic Transfer Machine 

Ans: c 

DORTIT ES BEARER COMPACT IT OUTER DOCT 17 BELLENT D 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOS 

Page 253 

Question Bank 

COXICITY DO OUTER COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT SY ZOB SOLUTION COMPACT SOLUTE CONS 

Ansu noiteeMCQ 

MPACT IT IS SOUTER COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT YOUR COMPACT IT JOB BOLLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

Investment Corporation 

Bangladesh 

Assistant Programmer: 2008 

b. C++ 

c. Java 

d. Visual Basic 

1. Which of the following program is an example of Platform Independent Program? 

a. FORTRAN 

Ans: c Note: The meaning of platform-independent is that the java compiled code (byte code) can run on all operating systems. A program is written in a language that is a human-readable language. 2. Firewall is a device used for filtering- 

a. Password 

b. File 

c. Packet 

d. Virus 

Ans: d 

Note: A firewall is a type of cybersecurity tool that is used to filter traffic on a network. The primary goal of a firewall is to block malicious traffic requests and data packets while allowing legitimate traffic through. 

3. How many layers are in a TCP/IP protocol suit? 

a. 7 

b. 5 

c. 4 

d. 10 

Ans: b 

Note: TCP/IP Model helps to determine how a specific computer should be connected to the internet and how data should be transmitted between them. It helps to create a virtual network when multiple computer networks are connected together. The purpose of TCP/IP model is to allow communication over large distances. The five layers of TCP/IP. Older models often show only four layers, combining the physical and data link layers. 

OSI 

7 

Application 

TCP/IP 

Application 

Presentation 

Not present 

5 

Session 

in the model 

Transport 

3 

Network 

2 

Data Link 

Transport 

Internet 

Host-to-network 

bland androllo di lo dold W 58 

go 

Selas& deobalgmul 

1 

Physical 

4. What is the length of a Unicode character? 

a. 4bits 

b. 8 bits 

c. 16 bits 

d. 32 bits 

Ans: c 

Note: Unicode is a universal character encoding standard that assigns a code to every character and symbol in every language in the world. Since no other encoding standard supports all languages, Unicode is the only encoding standard that ensures that you can retrieve or combine data using any combination of languages. 

5. Which of the following connectivity devices typically work at the Physical layer of the 

OSI model? 

a. Router 

b. Bridge 

c. Repeater 

d. Gateway 

Ans: c 

Note: A repeater operates at the physical layer. Its job is to regenerate the signal. over the same network before the signal becomes too weak or corrupted so as to extend. the length to which the signal can be transmitted over the same network. 

COMPACT IT 238 SOLUTEN COMPACT STOLLUTION COMPACT ET 208 SOLLTEN COMPACT TESOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

THEN COMPACT ET JOB OUTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

J102 80t T Page | 254 

Question Bank 

ATEX SLITEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOUTEN COMPACT IT ON SOUTIEN COMPACT ON SOLUTION COMPACT TOUTE COPPICTURE CON 

ns8 noitesMCQ 

6. A network-connected computer has IP address 201.102.133.25 and subnet mask 

255.255.0.0. Which of the following indicates the Host Id of this computer? 

a. 201.102.133 

b. 133.25 

c. 201.102 d. 25 

Ans b 

1. DWDM is the technology for boosting transmission capacity of optical fiber cable. 

What is the elaboration of DWDM? 

a. Dual Work Dense Multiplexing 

b. Double Wavelength Decrease Multiplexing 

c. Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing 

d. None of Above 

tani byto 

dobr 

Ans: c 

Note: Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM) is an optical multiplexing technology used to increase the bandwidth of existing optical networks. The working principle of DWDM is to transmit multiple signals of different wavelengths at the same time on the same optical fiber. 

Bangladesh Bank 

Assistant Programmeriwellel od rabiano), 8 

Exam: 2007 

1. The type of software that can store, update, manipulate and retrieve data is called- 

a. Desktop Publishing 

to sul din 20500 

b. Spreadsheets d. Graphics 

c. Database Management 

Ans: c 

Note: Database software is designed to create databases and to store, manage, change, search, and extract the information contained within them. A comprehensive database software program is sometimes called a database management system. 

2. What will be the number of element considering a linear array AAA (5:50)? 30/ 

a. 47% you b. 46 godnom c. 16 

d. 18 

Note: Number of element in each array = Upper Bound - Lower Bound + 1 

Ans: b 

AAA (5:50) = Length (AAA) = 50-5+1=46i and ons al vnam wolf .01 BBB (-5:10)= Length (BBB) = 10-(-5)+1=16 CCC (18) = Length (CCC) = 18 - 1+1 = 18 

3. An 8-bit unsigned number falls in the range- 

a. 0-256 

b. 0-255 

c. -127-+127 

246 

d. 0-128 

Ans: b 

Note: The range of 8-bit unsigned binary numbers is from 0 to 25510 in decimal and from 00 to FF16 in hexadecimal. 

a. CRT displays 

4. Laptop computers use- 

b. LCD displays 

c. SSGA displays 

d. None of these 

Ans: b 

Note: A liquid-crystal display is a flat-panel display or other electronically modulated optical device that uses the light-modulating properties of liquid crystals combined with polarizers. Liquid crystals do not emit light directly, instead using a backlight or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome. 

5. Computer users who are not computer professionals are sometimes called- 

GPACT II 23 KLARTEN CODPACT 17 23 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLANTEEN CEPACT ET JOB SELLSTEN COPRACT IT 200 SELLUTTER COMPACT IT 2018 BOLLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLIFER COMPACT D 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 800 TI Page | 255 

Question Bank 

QUOTA DUD ONCITO QURDOCTIT 

a. librarians 

c. peripheral users and 

Nnes noites MCQ 

SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS CLUTION COMPACT 2018 ROLL/TRONICOMPACT TY 

b. information officers b d. end-users 

ollol sito daid # 10.0.220 

257 Ans: d 

Note: An end user is an individual who uses hardware or software programmed or designed by another person who does not support that product. Most computer users are considered end users in one capacity or another. 

6. Adobe Acrobat files is stored in what format? 

a. Portable Document Format (PDF) 

c. Document (DOC) 

b. Adobe Acrobat File (AAF) d. Text (TXT) 

Ans: a 

Note: The Portable Document Format (PDF) is a file format developed by Adobe in 1993 to present documents, including text formatting and images, in a manner independent of application software, hardware, and operating systems. 

7. Which one is not used for set operation in SQL? 

a. union 

b. intersection 

c. Countab 

d. Except 

Ans: c 

Note: The SQL Set operation is used to combine the two or more SQL SELECT statements. Types of Set Operation: Union, UnionAll, Intersect, Minus, Except. 

8. Consider the following program segment in CHA 

int x=0, y=5; 

x=y++; 

What will be value of x and y after execution of the segment? 

a. 5,6 

b. 6,6 

c. 6,5 

d. 5,5 

Ans: a 

Note: y++ is postfix increment operator, this means that the value of y is first used in the program and then incremented. 

9. What is the average time of quick sort algorithm? 

a. (log n) 

b. (n) 

c. (n log n) 

d. (n2) 

Ans: c 

Note: Quicksort is a divide-and-conquer algorithm. It works by selecting a 'pivot' element from the array and partitioning the other elements into two sub-arrays, according to whether they are less than or greater than the pivot. The sub-arrays are then sorted recursively. 10. How many layers are there in the TCP/IP reference model? 

a. 4 

b. 5 

c. 6 

d. 7 

Note: [See Investment Corporation Bangladesh, Assistant Programmer: 2008] 11. Which one is an event of VB? 

a. Color 

b. Text 

c. Click 

d. Move 

Ans: b 

lean fid-8 A 

& 

Ans: c 

Note: An event is a message sent by an object within a program to the main program loop, informing it that something has happened. This "something" can vary widely, from a timer running out to a mouse-click on the part of the user. 

12. Which one is popular for database programming? 

a. Visual BASIC 

b. Oracle 

c. C++ 

d. Java 

Ans: b 

Note: Database Management Software also keeps data guarded and safe. These tools help in reducing data redundancy and maintaining the efficiency of data. Some of them are open-source and some are commercial with specific features. List of the top Database Management Software- SolarWinds Database Performance Analyzer, Oracle RDBMS, IBM DB2, Altibase, Microsoft, SQL Server, SAP Sybase ASE, Teradata, ADABAS, MySQL, FileMaker. 

CEDPACT IT IS COASTERN CEPACTTT XOR SOLUTION CEMPACT IT JOB BOLASTEEN COMPACT TEWENDDACT IT IS SOLUTEIN COMPACT ITS SOLUTION EPPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ST J 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

TEEN COMPACT ET JOBBOLLUTION COMPACT ET 238 SOLUTION CONVICT ET 28 ELUTENCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJO2 aot TI Page | 256 

Question Bank 

Mned noites MCQ 

STE JOB. SELLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT BY XS SOLUTION COMPACT IT XD SLATE COMPACT IN DEUTZER COMPACTES SOLUTIER CEPICT 308 SOLARFTEN CEROPACT ON XIN SOLASTER COMPACT IN EIN COUNTER COMPACTE EREUTER COMPACT E EN SLATERCOMPACT IT 

13. The operator "::" in C++ programming language is called- 

a. Scope resolution operator 

C. Pointer to member operator 

b. Pointer to number declarator 

d. Memory release operator 

Ans: a 

Note: Scope resolution operator (::) in C++ is used to define a function outside a class or when we want to use a global variable but also has a local variable with the same name. 

14. Probable application of minimum spanning tree algorithm is- best we 

a. Connection base stations of telecommunication 

b. Timber wood plantation 

c. Tree harvesting 

dgie 

d. Connecting wires between electric poles 

Ans: a 

Note: A minimum spanning tree is a special kind of tree that minimizes the lengths (or "weights”) of the edges of the tree. An example is a cable company wanting to lay line to multiple neighborhoods; by minimizing the amount of cable laid, the cable company will save money. 15. Time complexity of an algorithm considers- 

a. Space of a secondary storage only 

ilonamous of discog 

Teal gunsavonot dunate 1990 Ans: d 

b. Space of a secondary storage and time to execute boc. Space of a main memory and time to execute Sood. Time factor for execution of a program only 

Note: An algorithm is said to take linear time, or O(n) time, if its time complexity is O(n). Informally, this means that the running time increases at most linearly with the size of the input. More precisely, this means that there is a constant c such that the running time is at most cn for every input of size n. 

Bangladesh Bank 

Assistant Maintenance Engineer 

Exam: 2004 

A 

1. USB stands for what? 

a. Uninterruptible Bus c. Universal Serial Bus 

b. Useful Serial Bytes 

d. Universal System Bus 

Ans: c 

Note: USB is defined as an acronym that stands for Universal Serial Bus which is a type of computer port which can be used to connect equipment to a computer. 

lás 

2. Your manager was facing problem with the monitor of his PC and asked you to repair it. You had turned on the monitor and found a single horizontal line in the middle of the dark screen. What Component of the monitor was faulty? 

a. Vertical drive circuit 

c. Green video drive circuit 

b. Horizontal drive circuit 

d. Electron gun 

Ans: a 

3. Your printer's LCD shows a "Print overrun" error. Which of the following problems 

causes this error? 

a. Cartridge of the printer is exhausted 

b. Paper size is very large 

des to supin Fod joins 

ISOLATION COMPACT ET JED RELATION CEPACT IT DELISTEN COMPACT ET DER SCHAFTEN COMPACT IT IS SOLSTEN COMPACT II 238 SELASTER CERMPACT ET 200 SEALSTY 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOIT 

108 80t TX Page | 257 

Question Bank 

CTBED OUT DODOPOIDADOOMPACT ET FOR SOLUTE 

c. Problem is with serial data farming 

and noise MCQ 

MATER COMPACT POLAR COPOPACT IT JOB CAUTION COMPACT JOB SOLASTEN COMPACT ET JOB SOLUSTERCOMPACT IT 

Ans: d 

d. Shortage of memory to hold the page Note: The printer will display this error message when the document being sent to the printer requires more memory than what is installed in the printer. If your printer memory is full or the document is too large, the printer will display this error message. 

4. You need to connect two buildings on your corporate campus with a high-speed link. Due to Security concerns, it must be immune to electromagnetic interference and highly secure. Which of the following media types should you choose? 

b. Copper c. Glass 

d. Radio 

a. IR (wireless infrared) 

Ans: a Note: IR wireless is the use of wireless technology in devices or systems that convey data through infrared (IR) radiation. Infrared is electromagnetic energy at a wavelength or wavelengths somewhat longer than those of red light. Some engineers consider IR technology to be a sub-specialty of optical technology. 

5. It is possible to automatically configure TCP/IP settings on computers running Microsoft Operating systems. Which of the following protocols perform this function? 

a. RARP 

b. ICMP 

C. SMTP 

d. DHCP 

Ans: d Note: DHCP stands for dynamic host configuration protocol and is a network protocol used on IP networks where a DHCP server automatically assigns an IP address and other information to each host on the network so they can communicate efficiently with other endpoints. 

6. At maximum how many IDE devices can be attached to a conventional PC? 

a. 1 

b. 2 

c. 3 

d. 4 

Ans: d 

Note: IDE (Integrated Drive Electronics) is a standard electronic interface used between a computer motherboard's data paths or bus and the computer's disk storage devices. 

7. RPM is a feature that influence the performance of a- 

a. Hard Disk 

b. Printer 

c. Processor d. Speaker 

Ans: a 

Note: Revolutions Per Minute (RPM) With electric and electronics devices, RPM measures the rotational speed of the motor's spindle. Floppy disks rotate at 300 RPM, while hard disks rotate from 3,000 to 15,000 RPM. 

8. Your metropolitan Area Network encompasses two offices on opposite sides of a town that are connected via a leased 56Kbps line. However, computers in each office are not able to communicate with computers in other offices. You believe there is a 03 router configuration problem. At which layer of the OSI model does this problem 

dareside? 

a. Transportul b. Network c. Mata Link d. Physical 

Abo Ans: b Note: The Network Layer is the third layer of the OSI model. It handles the service requests from the * transport layer and further forwards the service request to the data link layer. The network layer 

translates the logical addresses into physical addresses. 

9. For computers to communicate on a network using TCP/IP, which of the following 

must be Unique for each computer? 

a. IP address 

b. Subnet Mask 

c. Default Gateway 

d. WINS 

COMPACT ET 203 SOLATER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACTTY SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACTLY SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: a 

PACT ET 300 BOUTEN COMPACT ET JOB SELL 

COMPACT IT 

Page | 258 

Question Bank 

OTHER SOLLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JUS 

COMPACT IT XIUS SEALTEN COMPACT II ER SAMTEN COMPACT IS ER SOUPER COMPACTIT 

inso nobes MCQ 

ALSOLUTION CRICT E XOCOLATER CONTREUEN GROTE BUTTRICES ACT IT 

Note: An Internet Protocol address is a numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication. An IP address serves two main functions: host or network interface identification and location addressing. 

10. Which of the following Ethernet component is unique for each card created? 

a. Frame type 

b. CRC address 

c. IRQ 

d. MAC address 

Ans: d 

Note: MAC address is a unique identifier that is assigned to a NIC (Network Interface Controller/ Card). It consists of a 48 bit or 64-bit address, which is associated with the network adapter. MAC address can be in hexadecimal format. The full form of MAC address is Media Access Control address. A MAC address is generally in six sets of two-digits/characters that are separated by colons. 

It provides a secure way to find senders or receivers in the network. 

MAC address helps you to prevent unwanted network access. 

MAC address is a unique number; hence it can be used to track the device. 

Wi-Fi networks at the airport use the MAC address of a specific device to identify it. 

(1:0 9(0) 

Jahangirnagar University Dept. of CSE 

m 

gorg to leve 

MSc Admission-2016 (PMSCS Program) 

1. Flash memory was developed taking the concept of- 

b. EEPROM 

c. DRAM 

d. SRAM 

Ans: b 

a. EPROM Note: Flash memory is a type of floating-gate memory that was invented at Toshiba in 1980, based on EEPROM (Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory) technology. In addition to being non-volatile, flash memory offers fast read access times, although not as fast as static RAM or ROM. 2. DRAM refers to: 

a. Dynamic Random-Access memory c. Duel Random Access memory 

b. Direct Random-Access memory d. None 

Ans: a 

Note: Dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) is a type of random access semiconductor memory that stores each bit of data in a memory cell consisting of a tiny capacitor and a transistor, both typically based on metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) technology. 

3. What type of device a Mouse is? 

c. Posting device 

d. None Ans: b 

a. Output device b. Input device Note: The computer mouse and scanner fall under the input device category. As the name suggests, input devices are used to send information to the computer. A mouse is used to input the movements of a cursor, while a scanner is used to input physical media into digital format. 

4. In C if a function does not explicitly specify a return type. It is assumed to return an 

by default. 

a. char 

b. float 

c. void 

d. integer 

Note: int 

add(int a, int b){ 

int sum; 

ten A 

sum = 

a + b; 

return sum; 

BRACTES JB SOLUTIES CORPACT IT JOB SOLATION COMPACT ET 2018 BELUTION COMPACT ET 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT XI SELATED COMPACT IT BELATION COMPACT IT JOB AMER 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: d 

GWA PACT IT 

MOITUJOR 40 TI Page | 259 

Question Bank 

• 

} 

Ansa noites MCQ 

SULTER COMPACT ET 

MONTE DAMEN COMMY ROWD COPY 

The "return type" indicates what kind of data this function will return. In the example above, the function returns an int. 

Some languages differentiate between "subroutines", which do not return a value, and "functions", which do. In C there are no subroutines, only functions, but functions are not required to return a value. The correct way to indicate that a function does not return a value is to use the return type "void". (This is a way of explicitly saying that the function returns nothing.) 

If no return type is given, the compiler will normally assume the function returns an int. This can cause problems if the function does not in fact return an int. 

5. Datagram is related to 

service and virtual circuit is related to 

service. 

a. both are connectionless 

c. Connection oriented and connectionless 

b. Connectionless and Connection oriented. d. None 

Ans: b 

6. In C programming what will be a value of x? 

print ("x=%d/n", (number<0)? -1: (number==0)? 0:1); 

a. 1 

b.-1 

c. 0 

d. None 

Ans: d 

Note: C programming conditional operator is also known as a ternary operator. It takes three operands. Conditional operator is closely related with if......else statement. Syntax of C programming conditional operator: 

(condition)? expressionl: expression2 7. Concurrent access to share data may result in data: 01 24/7 VOsm dzal3 

c. repository 

d. consistency 

dana. recovery 

b. inconsistency 

Ans: b Note: Data inconsistency is different and conflicting version of same data occurs at different place.it occurs between file when similar data is kept in different format in two different files or when matching of data must be done between files. 8. A Constructor is called whenever: 

a. an object is used 

tor 2017 MARC 

50A motion 

Ans: b 

c. a class is declared 

b. an object is declared or 

d. a class is used 

Note: The constructors are special type of functions which are called whenever an object is created. This is to initialize the data members of the class. The constructor allocates memory space for all the data members. Explanation: The constructors must contain only the class name. 

9. The term MIPS refer to: 

a. millions input processors 

edw 

b. megabyte of instructions per second d. millions of instructions per second 

Ans: d 

c. multiple instruction per-second Note: Million instructions per second (MIPS) is an older, obsolete measure of a computer's speed and power, MIPS measures roughly the number of machine instructions that a computer can execute in one second. 

10. An RGB image has 16 pixels. The storage requirement for the image will be - 

a. 16*24 bits 

b. 16*1 bits c. 16*8 bits 

d. None 

11. The main purpose of a primary key in a database table is- 

36023 

Ans: a 

a. updating 

b. deleting 

c. modifying 

d. searching 

Ans: d 

ACTIT SOLUTE COPPICT IT SOLTEN COMPACT ET 200 SOLUTEN COMPACT ET SOLLTEN COMPACT IT DIDLUTEN 

DOUD COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT 

SOLUTION COMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION CO 

EXCESSACT S 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 800 TX Page | 260 

Question Bank 

MARKER GEROPRET IT JOBBOLARION COMPACT IT JOB SOLAJTER CEMPACT BY JER BEALITION CEMPACT In 

inse noires MCQ 

DADONARDOROIDOUTERED PACT 17 

Note: A primary key is a field in a table which uniquely identifies each row/record in a database table. Primary keys must contain unique values. A primary key column cannot have NULL values. A table can have only one primary key, which may consist of single or multiple fields. When multiple fields are used as a primary key, they are called a composite key. 

12. Communication between a computer and a keyboard involves 

a. half duplex 

b. full duplex 

c. simplex 

transmission. 

d. automatic 

Ans: c 

Note: In simplex transmission, data flows in single direction which in this case refers to the data flowing from the keyboard to the computer. Another example would be of the mouse where the data flows from the mouse to the computer only. 

13. 1 nibble=? (bits) 

a. 2 

b. 1 

c. 4 

d. 6 

Ans: c 

Note: [Bangladesh Rural Electrification Board (BREB), Assistant Junior Engineer (IT): 2019, Q. 14] 14. Creating a new class using one or more existing classes is known as- 

a. Inheritance 

c. Encapsulation 

b. Overloading 

d. Polymorphism 

Ans: a 

Note: Inheritance defining a new class as an extension of an existing class. The existing class is known as the "base" class or "superclass". The new class is known as the "derived" or "subclass". The extension can be in the form of adding data items and adding functions. A more powerful extension comes in the form of "redefinition" of a function (called a "virtual" function in C++.) It is also possible to hide data items and functions in the new class so that users of the new class will not be able to access all the functions and data of the existing class. 

BCS Questions 

৪৩তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

c. Norton 

d.Kasperskyd 

1. নিচের কোনটি anti-virus সফটওয়্যার নয়? 

a. Oracle 

b. McAfee 

Ans: a 

Note: Oracle is a database software, McAfee, Norton and Kaspersky are Anti-virus software. 

2. RFID বলতে বোঝায়- 

a. Random Frequency Identification c. Radio Frequency Information 3. কোন মাধ্যমে আলোর পালস্ ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

a. তামার তার b. কো-এক্সিয়াল ক্যাবল 

4. কোন চিহ্নটি ই-মেইল ঠিকানায় অবশ্যই থাকবে? 

a. $ 

b. # 

C. & 

b. Random Frequency Information d. Radio Frequency Identification 

Ans: d 

c. অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার 

d. ওয়্যারলেস মিডিয়া 

Ans: c 

d. @ 

Ans: d 

c. 28 

d. <8 

Ans: a 

কে 

address-এর পরিবর্তন করা । 

b. MAC Address, IP 

Ans: c 

LEUTEDOPACT ST 

MOIT 

Page | 261 

5. ১০১১১০০ বাইনারি নাম্বারের সমতুল্য ডেসিমাল নাম্বার কোনটি? 

a. 86 

b. ১৬ 

6. DNS সার্ভারের কাজ হচ্ছে 

a. Email, DNS 

tam/c. Domain name, IP 

C. 

TOUTEN COMPACTITJOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 

COMPACT ET X SOLUTEN PICT 

shagod. Email, IP 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

BOLURION CONONCTITY 

3 

Question Bank 

COPOT DEUDONOTTY SURER CACTTN 

7. নিচের কোনটি Open Source DBMS? 

a. MySQL b. Microsoft SQL Server 

8. নিচের কোনটি Output device নয়? 

a. Monitor 

b. Microphone 

*ng8 noites MCQ 

EEN COMPACT IT DO SOLUSTER CORPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB SOWATERCOMPACT ST 

c. Microsoft Accesses d. Oracle Ans: a 

9. নিচের কোনটি একটি প্রতিষ্ঠানের ওয়েব ঠিকানা কে নির্দেশ করে? 

c. URL 

Rino 

c. Printer 

d. Speaker 2600 Ans: b 

d. HTML 

coinubilari. Ans: c 

b. Cloud Computing for badged ud mod ghiw d. Big Data Analytics 

Ans: b 

enza. http 

b. www 10. নিচের কোন প্রযুক্তি 'Pay as You Go' সার্ভিস মডেল অনুসরণ করে? 

a. Internet of Things (IoT) 

c. Client-Server Systems 

11. যে সাইবার আক্রমণ সংঘটিত হলে গ্রাহকের বৈধ অনুরোদসমূহ কোন web server সম্পূর্ণ করতে ব্যর্থ হয় সেটি কী নামে 

পরিচিত? 

a. Phishing 

c. Denial of Server 

b. Man-in-the Middle 

d. উপরের কোনটিই নয় 

b. Shortest Job First 

12. নিচের Job Scheduling Policy সমূহের মধ্যে কোনটি Starvation থেকে মুক্ত? 

a. Priority Scheduling 

c. Youngest Job First 

d. Round-robin 

13. নিচের কোন প্রযুক্তি Face Recognition System-এর সহায়ক ভূমিকা পালন করে? 

a. Applied Artificial Intelligence (AI) c. Virtual Reality 

14. নিচের কোন মেমোরিটিতে Access Time সবচেয়ে কম? 

b. SSD 

c. RAM 

Hebelgued) 1930/1 

on & quits Ans: c 

полівішадь п 

Ans: d 

b. Applied Internet of Things (IoT) d. উপরের কোনটিই নয় 

a. Registers 15. নিচের কোন ডিভাইসটি ডিজিটাল সিগন্যালকে অ্যানালগ সিগন্যালে পরিবর্তনে ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

b. Switch oitec. Modem 

Ans: d 

haa zuri stib obid of d. Cache memory at SEIN 

Ans: a 

Ans: c 

Ans: a 

d. HUB 

a. Router 16. Keyboard এবং CPU –এর মধ্যে কোন পদ্ধতিতে data transmission হয়? 

a. Simplex 

c. Half duplex d. Triplex 

b. Duplex 

17. Blockchain-এর প্রতিটি block কী তথ্য বহন করে? 

a. A hash pointer to the previous block 

c. List of transactions 

18. নিচের কোনটি Bluetooth- এর IEEE standard ? 

b. Timestamp d. উপরের সবগুলো 

plus Ans: d 

b. IEEE 802.1 

c. IEEE 802.3 

d. IEEE 802.11 Ans: a 

b. Linux 

c. Windows NT 

d. DOS 

obca Ans: d 

৪১তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

a. IEEE 802.15 19. নিচের কোনটি Multi - tasking operating system নয়? 

bienta. Windows 

1. একটি সিস্টেম যেখানে আইটেমগুলো এক প্রান্তে সংযোজিত হয় কিন্তু অন্য প্রান্ত থেকে সরানো হয় তার নাম- 

a. Array 2. নিচের কোনটি anti-virus সফটওয়্যার নয়? 

b. Linked list 

c. Stack 

मनक 

d. Queue 

Ans: d 

b. McAfee 

c. Notron 

d. Kaspersky 20Ans: a 

240 Tramd 

b. Loader 

4 c. Operating system 

a. Oracle 3. একটি কম্পিউটার boot করতে পারে না যদি তাতে না থাকে- 

a. Compiler 

DAUDELLATEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 238 SOLUTEN COMPACT IT SOLUTION COPRICT IT23133 LATE COMPACT ET SOLUTION COMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

d. Bootstrap Ans: c 

QUID OPACT 

SOLUTION 

COMPACT IT FOR SOLUTION COMPACT ET DA SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJ02 SOLTI Page | 262 

Question Bank 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION ACTINCT SOLUTER CHANCE IT SEN DI 

4. মাইক্রোসফ্‌ট IIS হচ্ছে একটি- 

a. Email server 

c. Database sarver 

5. ব্লুটুথ কত দূরত্ব পর্যন্ত কাজ করে? 

a. ১০-৩০ মিটার 

c. ১০-১০০ মিটার 

b. Web server 

d. File server 

b. ১০-৫০ মিটার 

d. ১০-৩০০ মিটার 

6. যে কম্পিউটার ভাষায় সবকিছু শুধুমাত্র বাইনারি কোডে লেখা হয় তাকে বলে- 

Anisa noitas MCQ 

QUTD COPACT IT 

Ans: b 

a. Machine language 

7. API মানে- 

a. Advanced Processing Information c. Application Programming Interfacepted. Applicaton Processing Interface 

৪. ক্লাউড কম্পিউটিং এর সার্ভিস মডেল কোনটি? 

a. অবকাঠামোগত 9. কোন নেটওয়ার্ক টপোলজিতে হাব (Hub) ব্যবহার করা হয়? 

b. রিং টপোলজি 

a. বাস টপোলজি 

10. যে কম্পিউটার ভাষায় সবকিছু শুধুমাত্র বাইনারি কোডে লেখা হয় তাকে বলে ? 

b. Java 

Ans: c 

b. C 

c. Javad d. Python 

Ans: a 

b. Application Processing Information 

Ans: c 

b. প্লাটফর্মভিত্তিক 

sisit mc. 

c. সফটওয়্যার 

d. উপরের সবগুলো 

Ans: d 

c. স্টার টপোলজি d. ট্রি টপোলজি 

Ans: c 

c. Python 

d. Machine Language 

Mombell Ans: d 

TC. AND 

d. উপরের সবগুলো 

Ans: a 

c. Wi-Max d. Cellular Network 

Ans: b 

b. Random Frequency Information 

d. Radio Frequency Identification 

Ans: d 

b. (A + B) = A + B 

d. (A + B + C) = A. B. C 

Ans: b 

a. C 11. যে ইলেক্ট্রনিক লজিক গেইটের আউটপুট লজিক । শুধুমাত্র যখন সকল ইনপুট 1 তার নাম? 

a. NAND b. OR 

* 12. নিচের কোনটির যোগাযোগের দূরত্ব সবচেয়ে কম? 

a. Wi-Fi b. Bluetooth 

13. RFID বলতে বুঝায়? 

a. Random Frequency Identification 

en/c. Radio Frequency Information 14. নিচের কোনটি সঠিক নয়? 

a. (A + B) = A. B 

c. ( A. B. C) = A + B + C 

15. Apache এক ধরনের- 

a. Database Management System (DBMS) b. Web Server 

decent c. Web Browser 

d. Protocol 

16. স্টিভ চেন ও চাড হারলির সাথে যৌথ ভাবে কোন বাংলাদেশি ইউটিউব প্রতিষ্ঠা করেন? 

a. জাবেদ করিম 

b. ফজলুল করিম 

c. জাওয়াদুল করিম 

৪০তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

Ans: b 

d. মঞ্জুরুল করিম 

Ans: a 

17. মুদ্রিত লেখা সরাসরি ইনপুট নেয়ার জন্য নীচের কোনটি ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

a. OMR 

b. OCR 

c. MICR 

d. Scanner 

Ans: b 

ব্যাখ্যা: Optical Character Recognition (OCR) এর মাধ্যমে বিভিন্ন আকৃতি ও বিভিন্ন ধরনের চিহ্ন, অক্ষর পাঠ করা সম্ভব । 18. নীচের কোন প্রোগ্রামটি একটি সম্পূর্ণ কম্পিউটার প্রোগ্রামকে একবারে অনুবাদ ও সম্পাদন করে? Tenza. Interpreter 

b. Emulator 

ON BOLTE CERTIFIED CONCT IS CONCTED SOUT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

c. Compiler 

d. Simulator 

Ans: c 

TRACT IT 

MOITUJO2 800 T Page | 263 

10280LT7 

Question Bank 

CRETTYOTI DICT 

CLLUTION COD 

TXO SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB 

ins8 noises MCQ 

CRICT 30 SOLUTION DARACTED OUT ACT 200 SOLUTIONCEINPACT IT 

ব্যাখ্যা: উচ্চস্তরের ভাষায় লেখা উৎস প্রোগ্রামকে বস্তু প্রোগ্রামে রূপান্তরিত করার প্রোগ্রামকে Compiler বলে। Compiler সম্পূর্ণ প্রোগ্রামটিকে একসাথে পড়ে এবং একসাথে অনুবাদ করে। Compiler সহায়ক মেমরিতে থাকে। প্রয়োজনের সময় তাদের র‍্যামে আনা হয়। ভিন্ন ভিন্ন হাই লেভেল ভাষার জন্য ভিন্ন ভিন্ন Compiler লাগে। কোনো নির্দিষ্ট Compiler একটি মাত্র হাই লেভেল ভাষাকে মেশিন ভাষায় পরিণত করতে পারে। 

19. নীচের কোনটি একই সাথে ইনপুট ও আউটপুট হিসেবে কাজ করে? 

b. Microphone 

c. Touch Screen 

d. Printer 

a. Mouse 

Ans: c ব্যাখ্যাঃ একই সাথে ইনপুট-আউটপুট হিসেবে কাজ করে এমন কতগুলো যন্ত্র হচ্ছে: Digital Camera, Modem, Network Card and Touch Screen ইত্যাদি । 

* 20. নীচের কোনটি Octal number নয়? 

a. 19 

b. 77 

c. 15 

d. 101 

19/Ans: a 

ব্যাখ্যা: আধুনিক ডিজিটাল কম্পিউটারে Octal সংখ্যা পদ্ধতি ব্যবহৃত হচ্ছে। যে সংখ্যা পদ্ধতি 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 এ আটটি অঙ্ক বা চিহ্ন নিয়ে গঠিত তাকে Octal সংখ্যা পদ্ধতি বলে। যেমন: (101), ( 77 ) ও (15) 8 Octal সংখ্যা। মনে রাখতে হবে Octal সংখ্যায় ৪ ও 9 ব্যবহৃত হয় না । 

21. একটি রিলেশনাল ডাটাবেস মডেলে নীচের কোনটি দ্বারা Relation প্রকাশ করা হয়? 

a. Tuples 

b. Attributes 

c. Tables (lol) d. Rows 

Ans: c 

ব্যাখ্যাঃ রিলেশনাল ডাটাবেস মডেল বলতে মূলত এক বা একাধিক টেবিলের রেকর্ডের সম্পর্ককে বুঝায়। অর্থাৎ রিলেশনাল ডাটাবেস মডেলে টেবিল দ্বারা Relation প্রকাশ করা হয়। 22. Bluetooth কিসের উদাহরণ? 

a. Personal Area Network 

NTRAC. Virtual Private Network 

b. Local Area Network d. কোনটিই নয় 

CMAMI Ans: a 

ব্যাখ্যা: Bluetooth হচ্ছে তারবিহীন স্বল্প দূরত্বে ডেটা অদান-প্রদানের জন্য ব্যবহৃত একটি প্রোপায়েটারি ওপেন ওয়্যারলেস প্রযুক্তি। এর মাধ্যমে একটি পার্সোনাল এরিয়া নেটওয়ার্ক (PAN) সৃষ্টি হয় যেখানে উঁচু মানের নিরাপত্তা বজায় থাকে। এর দূরত্ব সাধারণত ১০ থেকে ১০০ মিটার হয়ে থাকে । 

23. মোবাইল ফোনে কোন Mode-এ যোগাযোগ হয়? 

brenza. Simplex 

b. Half-duplex 

ব্যাখ্যা: ডাটা প্রেরণের মোডকে প্রধানত তিন ভাগে ভাগ করা যায়:- 

c. Full-duplexin 

d. কোনটি নয় Ans: c 

I 

Simplex = কেবল একদিকে ডাটা প্রেরণ করে। যেমন: রেডিও, টিভি । Half-duplex = উভয়দিক থেকে ডাটা প্রেরণ করে, কিন্তু একসাথে সম্ভব নয়। যেমন: ওয়াকিটকি Full-duplex = একই সময়ে উভয়দিক থেকে ডাটা প্রেরণ করতে পারে। যেমন: টেলিফোন, মোবাইল । 24. Time-shared OS- এর জন্য কোন scheduling policy সবচেয়ে ভাল? 

a. First come first serve c. Shortest job first 

feb. Round-robin qugranadatel 

d. Last come first serve con de W. Ans: b ব্যাখ্যা: Time-Shared Operating System-এ অনেকগুলো কম্পিউটার একটি কেন্দ্রীয় কম্পিউটারের সাথে টাইম শেয়ার করে নেয় । এই অপারেটিং সিস্টেমে Round Robin Scheduling Algorithm এমন ভাবে ডিজাইন করা হয় যেখানে একটি সিস্টেমকে অনেক ইউসার ব্যবহার করতে পারে। তাই Time Shred OS এ Round Robin Scheduling এর ব্যবহার সবচেয়ে ভাল । 

25. নীচের কোনটি ৫২.., এর বাইনারী রূপ? 

c. 0000 1100(2) 

d. 1111 0000 (2) 

a. 01010010(2) b. 0111 0011(2) 

Ans: a ব্যাখ্যাঃ কোনো হেক্সাডেসিমাল সংখ্যাকে বাইনারিতে রূপান্তর করতে হলে হেক্সাডেসিমালের প্রতি একটি হেক্সাডেসিমাল ডিজিট/ প্রতীককে চারটি সমতুল্য বাইনারি ডিজিট দ্বারা প্রকাশ করতে হয়। ৫২ এর ক্ষেত্রে 5 = 0101 এবং 2 = 0010 অর্থাৎ 52(16) = 01010010 (2) 26. প্রথম Web browser কোনটি? 

81 

a. Netscape Navigator 

c. Internet Explorer 

b. World wide web 

d. Safari 

rol Ans: b 

GHURITY JOB SOLATE CHANCE ACT ON CICT IT BOUTI CITY BOLUTION CONCITATION ACT IT JOB SOLUTION CECTT 

TEN COMPACT TOWN COMPACT 

JOB SOLATERCOMPACT IT 

• COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJO2 800 11 Page | 264 

Question Bank 

DLASTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTER COMPACT TY 

Ans& noites MCQ 

POTDQUENCE ACT ST 

: The first web browser is called World Wide Web as, after all, when it is written in 1990 it is the only way to see the web. Netscape Navigator - ১৯৯৪, Internet Explorer-১৯৯৫ এবং Safari ২০০৩ সালে আবিষ্কার 

করা হয় । 

27. Social Networking Site-এ যোগাযোগ কোন media ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

a. Image/video 

b. Audio 

c. Text 

d. উপরের সবগুলো 

Ans: d ব্যাখ্যা: Social Networking সাইটে উপরে উল্লিখিত সবগুলো মিডিয়ায় ব্যবহৃত হয়। জনপ্রিয় কতগুলো Social Networking সাইট হলো ফেসবুক, টুইটার, ইন্সটাগ্রাম ইত্যাদি। 

28. Firewall কি protection দেয়ার জন্য ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

a. Fire attacks 

c. Virus attacks 

b. Unauthorized access 

d. Data-driven attacks 

Ans: b 

ব্যাখ্যাঃ অনির্দিষ্ট ও অবাঞ্চিত ব্যবহারকারীর হাত থেকে কম্পিউটার সিস্টেমকে রক্ষায় Firewall ব্যবহৃত হয়। অর্থাৎ Unauthorized access থেকে কম্পিউটার সিস্টেমকে রক্ষা করার জন্য Firewall ব্যবহৃত হয়। 29. TV remote Carrier frequency- range G? 

a. <100MHZ 

b. <1GHZ 

c. <2 GHZ 

d. Infra-red range- 

Ans: d 

ব্যাখ্যাঃ TV Remote এ Infra red ray ব্যবহৃত হয় । 

30. CPU address generate 

a. Physical address 

? 

c. Both physical and logical addresses 

b. Logical address 

d. উপরের কোনটি নয় 

Ans: b 

ব্যাখ্যা: কম্পিউটারে Logical Address, Physical Address নামক দুই ধরনের address ব্যবহৃত হয়। সাধারণত logical Address, CPU দ্বারা তৈরি হয়। অপরপক্ষে logical Address এর জন্য মেমোরি ম্যানেজমেন্ট ইউনিট ব্যবহার করে তৈরি হয় Physical Address. 

31. H. 323 Protocol সাধারণত কি কাজে ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

a. File transfer 

b. VoIP 

c. Data Security 

d. File download 

Ans: b 

ব্যাখ্যা: সাধারণত কোন নেটওয়ার্কে অডিও-ভিডিও যোগাযোগের সুবিধা প্রদানের প্রটোকল নির্ধারণ হয় H.323 দ্বারা। কাজেই এই ধরনের যন্ত্র VoIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) নেটওয়ার্কে ব্যবহৃত হয় । 

1. Cozy Bear একটি কি? 

a. চুক্তি 

b. হ্যাকার গ্রুপ 

৩৯তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

c. বিনোদনকেন্দ্ৰ 

d. নদী 

Ans: b 

: Cozy Bear, classified by the United States Federal Government as advanced persistent threat APT29, is a Russian hacker group believed to be associated with one or more intelligence agencies of Russia. 

00 

৩৮তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. এক Word কত বিট বিশিষ্ট হয়? 

a. 8 

b. 16 

c. 4 

d. 2 

: 1 word = 16 bit, 1 bit = 0.0625 word 2. 10101111 এর 1's complement কোনটি? 

a. 1111 1111 

b. 0000 0000 

c. 0101 0000 

d. 1100 0011 

COOCT 17 230 BELLATION COMPACT STADSOLUTER COMPACT TY 20 SOLARION COMPACT ET JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT ES JOB SELLUTED CONSPICEST) 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: b 

Ans: c 

MOTTUJ03 800 T Page | 265 

Question Bank 

dens noilea MCQ 

CONTACT UPDATE DUE DATE FRANCE CHAICT JOB SOLITE COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION CONTACT IT 

ব্যাখ্যাঃ কোনো বাইনারি সংখ্যার ১ এর পরিপূরক বা 1's Complement বলতে ঐ সংখ্যার 1 এর স্থলে 0 এবং 0 এর স্থলে 1 দ্বারা প্রতিস্থাপন (Replacement) করতে হয় ৷ 

3. কোনটি সঠিক নয়? 

a. A+0=A 

b. A.1=A 

c. A+A=1 

d. A. A=1 

Intec Ans: d 

ব্যাখ্যা: বুলিয়ান উপপাদ্যের সাহায্যে যুক্তি রাশিমালার সরলীকরণ বা রাশিমালার গঠন পরিবর্তন সাধন করা যায়। বুলিয়ান চলকের মান ‘1’ অথবা '0' দিয়ে এসব উপপাদ্যগুলো সহজেই প্রমাণ করা যায়। যেমন: উদাহরণ: A. A=0 

যদি A=1 হয় তবে Ā = 0 

বামপক্ষ 

= A. A 

= 1.0 

= 0 

= ডানপক্ষ 

যদি A=0 হয় তবে Ā = 1 

বামপক্ষ 

= A. A 

boshudia 

= 0.1 

= 0 

= ডানপক্ষ 

.. বুলিয়ান চলক A এর যেকোনো মানের জন্য A. A=0 (প্রমাণিত) 

4. ডিস্ক ডিফ্রাগমেন্টেশান ব্যবহৃত হয়- 

ban 

a. ভাইরাস ধ্বংসের জন্য 

c. ডিস্কের ফাইলগুলোকে পুনর্বিন্যস্ত করতে 

b. খারাপ সেক্টরসমূহ পরীক্ষা করতে d. ডিস্ক ফরমেট করতে 

SHMOGI 

31 

Ans: c 

ব্যাখ্যা: ডিফ্রাগমেন্টেশান হচ্ছে PC Hard disk সুরক্ষিত রাখার একটি উইন্ডোজ ডিফল্ট Software যা কম্পিউটারের বিচ্ছিন্ন ফাইলগুলোকে একত্রিত করে । 

5. একটি লজিক গেট-এর আউটপুট 1 হয় যখন এর সব ইনপুট ( থাকে। এই গেটটি- 

c. XOR 

d. NAND 

Sibbo lezizy 

5 

Ans: d 

a. AND b. OR ব্যাখ্যা: NAND Gate হলো AND গেইট ও NOT গেইটের সমন্বয়ে গঠিত। AND গেইটের আউটপুটকে NOT গেইট দিয়ে প্রবাহিত করলে NAND গেইট পাওয়া যায়। অর্থাৎ AND Gate +NOT Gate = NAND Gate । 

Input 

A 

B 

Output Y=AB 

loler ECE IN IE 

dAA 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

1 

2014 s/motel 1970 3010V) Mo 

1 

1 

0 

6. ROM ভিত্তিক প্রোগ্রামের নাম কি? 

a. Malware 

b. Firmware 

c. Vireus 

d. Lip-lop 

Ans: b 

ব্যাখ্যা: ROM ভিত্তিক প্রোগ্রাম হলো Firmware or Microcode. Firmware includes BIOS, Erasable Programmable ROM (EPROM) and the ROM configurations for software. 

7. কোনটি মাইক্রোসফটের প্রথম প্রোগ্রাম? 

c. MS DOS 

d. Windows 7 

Ans: c 

a. Windows XP b. Windows 98 ব্যাখ্যা: Microsoft's first wildly successful operating system was MS DOS (Microsoft Disk Operating System), which was written for IBM in 1981 and based on computer programmer Tim Paterson's QDOS (Quick and Dirty Operating System). In the deal of the century, Gates licensed MS-DOS to IBM but retained the rights to the software. 

8. কোন মাধ্যমে আলোর পালস ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

a. তামার তার b. কো-এক্সিয়াল ক্যাবল c. অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার 

d. ওয়্যারলেস মিডিয়া Ans: c 

ব্যাখ্যা: অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার হলো কাঁচ অথবা প্লাস্টিকের তৈরি এক ধরনের ডাই ইলেকট্রিক (অন্তরক) পদার্থ, যা আলো পরিবহনে সক্ষম। অপটিক্যাল ফাইবারের মধ্য দিয়ে আলোর পূর্ণ অভ্যন্তরীণ প্রতিফলনের মাধ্যমে অতি দ্রুত ডেটা প্রেরণ করা যায়। অপটিক্যাল ফাইবারের সবচেয়ে বড় বৈশিষ্ট্য হলো এটি ইলেকট্রিক্যাল সিগন্যালের পরিবর্তে আলোক বা লাইট সিগন্যাল ট্রান্সমিট করে। বর্তমানে যে সব অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার পাওয়া যায় তার ডেটা ট্রান্সমিশন হার 100 mbps থেকে 2 gbps । 

CCTTC SOUNDATION CIC IT OUTER CONCERTON DANCEUTION DOCT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

CATEGORIES STEM CONTACT T 

MOITUJO2 800 TI Page | 266 

Question Bank 

SOLUTION COACT IT ON SOLUTION CHAT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION OUTER SOUER DAY IT AT 

9. ই-মেইল গ্রহণ করার অধিক ব্যবহৃত প্রোটোকল কোনটি? 

a. POP3 

b. POP9 

c. HTML 

d. SMTP 

8 noises MCQ 

LEER CERACY B 28 UTEN COPIC IT IS ELTERNCOND ACT IT 

Ans: a 

ব্যাখ্যাঃ ই-মেইল গ্রহণ করার প্রোটোকল হলো POP3 (Post Office Protocol 3 ) ও IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) এবং পাঠানোর একটি প্রোটোকল হলো SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol). 

10. কোন ধরনের Bus ব্যবহৃত হয় না? 

a. Address bus 

b. Input-reader bus 

c. Data bus 

ব্যাখ্যা: কম্পিউটারের বাস তিন ধরনের Address bus, Data bus এবং Control bus । 

d. Control bus 

Ans: b 

11. কোন সাইটটি কেনা-বেচার জন্য নয়? 

a. ekhhanei.com b.olx.com 

c. google.com 

d. amazon.com 

Ans: c 

ব্যাখ্যা: জনপ্রিয় কিছু কেনা বেচার সাইট হল: amazon.com, olx.com, ekhhanei.com, Daraz, Bikroy, Rokomari, 

Chaldal, Alibaba etc. 

12. কম্পিউটার নেটওয়ার্কে OSI মডেমের স্তর কয়টি? 

a. 

b. ৫ 

c. ৯ 

d. ৮ 

ব্যাখ্যা: OSI Model এর পূর্ণরূপ হলো: Open System Interconnection model। এতে সাতটি স্তর থাকে। যথা: 

Ans: a 

bed down! 

ERRA BOR 

OSI 

TCPAP 

7 

Application 

Application 

6 

Presentation 

Not present 

in the model 

Session 

4 

Transport 

Transport 

3 

Network 

Internet 

2 

Data link 

Link 

1 

Physical 

13. কোন প্রটোকলটি ইন্টারনেট সংযোগের ক্ষেত্রে সর্বাধিক ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

a. TCP/IP 

b. Novel netware 

b. Net BEUI d. Linux 

Ans: a 

ব্যাখ্যা: TCP/IP- Transmission Control Protol / Internet Protocol ইন্টারনেট সংযোগের প্রটোকল। এই প্রটোকল প্রাইভেট Network যেমন: Intranet বা Extranet এর ক্ষেত্রেও ব্যবহৃত হয়। 

14. কোন চিহ্নটি ই-মেইল ঠিকানায় অবশ্যই থাকবে? 

a. $ 

b. # 

c. & 

ব্যাখ্যা: ১৯৭২ সালে ইমেইল ঠিকানায় সর্বপ্রথম @ চিহ্ন ব্যবহৃত হয় । 

d. @ 

Ans: d 

15. নিচের কোনটি সামঞ্জস্যপূর্ণ নয়? 

a. ফেসবুক b. টুইটার 

c. লিংকড ইন 

d. উইকিপিডিয়া 

Ans: d 

ব্যাখ্যাঃ ফেসবুক, টুইটার, লিংকড ইন হলো ইন্টারনেট ভিত্তিক সামাজিক যোগাযোগ মাধ্যম। কিন্তু, উইকিপিডিয়া কোন সামাজিক যোগাযোগ মাধ্যম নয়, এটি একটি তথ্য ভান্ডার সাইট। 

৩৭তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. কম্পিউটার সিপিইউ (CPU) এর কোন অংশ গাণিতিক সিদ্ধান্ত গ্রহণের কাজ করে? 

a. এ.এল.ইউ(ALU) 

c. রেজিস্ট্রার সেট ( Register Set) 

b. কন্ট্রোল ইউনিট (Control Unit) 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: a 

ব্যাখ্যা: CPU (Central Processing Unit) হল কম্পিউটারের মস্তিষ্কের মত। যার একটি অংশ হচ্ছে এ.এল.ইউ (ALU- Arithmetic-Logic Unit), যার মাধ্যমে গাণিতিক সিদ্ধান্ত গ্রহণের কাজ করে হয়ে থাকে। 

2. “একটি 2 ইনপুট লজিক গেটের আউটপুট ( হবে, যদি এর ইনপুটগুলো সমান হয়”- এই উক্তিটি কোন গেটের জন্য সত্য? 

a. AND 

b. NOR 

BUTION CORPICT IT OR SOLUTION CICT IT SOLUTION CECT SEEN COINCIES ROUTER COUNC 

c. X-OR 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

d. OR 

Ans: c 

ACT N 

MOITUJO2 BOLTS Page | 267 

Question Bank 

BRCIDSOLUTION COMPACTET ED SAUTER COMPACT IT XI EWER ONCTE JA SUUVEDRUDONTS 

RDONTWDAW 

dnsa noite MCQ 

ROGACY BY DOMINGORACY 20 MEN PACY I DEUTEROOPPACT IT 

ব্যাখ্যা: Exclusive-OR গেইটকে সংক্ষেপে X-OR গেইট বলা হয়। এ গেইট কোনো বেসিক গেইট নয় কারণ এটি অ্যান্ড, অর ও নট ইত্যাদি গেইটের সাহায্যে তৈরি করা হয়। এ গেইটের ইনপুটগুলো সমান হলে আউটপুট ০ হয়। অন্যথায় আউটপুট 1 হবে। X-OR গেইটের দুই বা ততোধিক ইনপুট থাকে এবং একটি মাত্র আউটপুট থাকে । 

Output Y=AOB 

Input 

A 

B 

0 

0 

0 

auo ludo) tr and 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

3. কোনটি অপারেটিং সিস্টেম নয়- 

A. C 

b. DOS 

c. CP/M 

STOPO 

d. XENIX 

Ans: a 

ব্যাখ্যাঃ C কোন অপারেটিং সিস্টেম নয়। এটি একটি High Level Programming language। আমেরিকার বেল ল্যাবরেটরির ডেনিস রিচি ১৯৭০ সালে এ ভাষার উদ্ভাবন করেন। অপর দিকে DOS (Disk Operating System), CP / M (Control Program/Monitor), XENIX is a discontinued version of the Unix operating system হল অপারেটিং সিস্টেম । 4. নিচের কোনটি ইনপুট ডিভাইস? 

a. OMR b. COM 

c. Plotter 

d. Monitor 

Ans: a 

ব্যাখ্যা: পরিচিত কয়েকটি ইনপুট ডিভাইস হল: Keyboard, Mouse, Joy Stick, Light pen, Track Ball, Scanner, Graphic Tablet, Microphone, Magnetic Ink Card Reader (MICR), Optical Character Reader (OCR), Bar Code Reader, Optical Mark Reader (OMR). 

5. EDSAC কম্পিউটার-এ ডাটা সংরক্ষণের জন্য কী ধরনের মেমোরি ব্যবহার হতো? 

b. ROM 

c. Mercury Delay Lines 

a. RAM 

d. Registors Ans: c ব্যাখ্যা: EDSAC কম্পিউটার-এ ডাটা সংরক্ষণের জন্য Mercury Delay Lines মেমোরি ব্যবহার হতো। কিন্তু এখনকার কম্পিউটার গুলোতে RAM, ROM, Register Memory, Cache Memory ইত্যাদি ব্যবহৃত হয় । 

6. ক্লাউড সার্ভার নিচের কোনটিতে সবচেয়ে ভালো বর্ণনা করা সম্ভব- 

a. নেটওয়ার্কের মাধ্যমে যুক্ত একাধিক কম্পিউটার সার্ভার 

b. একটি বিশাল ক্ষমতাসম্পন্ন কম্পিউটার সার্ভার d. উপরের কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: c 

c. ব্যবহারকারীর চাহিদা অনুযায়ী কম্পিউটিং সেবা দেওয়া ব্যাখ্যাঃ ক্লাউড কম্পিউটিং এর কিছু বৈশিষ্ট্য হল: On-demand self-services, Broad network access, Rapid elasticity, Resource pooling, Measured service. 

7. IPv6 Address কত বিটের? 

a. 128 

b. 32 

c. 12 

ব্যাখ্যা: IPv4 address হল ৩২ বিট বিশিষ্ট এবং IPv6 address হল ১২৮ বিটের। ৪. ইউনিকোডের মাধ্যমে সম্ভাব্য কতগুলো চিহ্নকে নির্দিষ্ট করা যায়? 

b. 4096 ft 

d. 6 

c. 65536 ft 

d. 4294967296 ft 

Ans: a 

Ans: c 

a. 256 fo ব্যাখ্যা: Unicode এর পূর্ণনাম হলো Universal Code বা সার্বজনীন কোড। ইউনিকোড মূলত 2 বাইট বা 16 বিটের কোড। এ কোডের মাধ্যমে 65,536 বা 216 টি অদ্বিতীয় চিহ্নকে নির্দিষ্ট করা যায় । 

a. এটির নির্মাতা গুগল 

c. এটি প্রধানত টাচ স্ক্রিন মোবাইল ডিভাইসের জন্য তৈরি 10. আই.ও.এস (IOS) মোবাইল অপারেটিং সিস্টেমটি কোন প্রতিষ্ঠান বাজারজাত করে? 

a. অ্যাপেল 

b. গুগল 

c. মাইক্রোসফট 

9. এনড্রয়েড অপারেটিং সিস্টেমের ক্ষেত্রে নিচের কোনটি সঠিক? 

b. এটি লিনাক্স (Linux) কার্নেল নির্ভর d. উপরের সবগুলো সঠিক 

Ans: d 

Ans: a 

Ans: c 

MOITUJO2 got ri Page | 268 

11. ই-কমার্স সাইট amazon.com কত সালে প্রতিষ্ঠিত হয়? 

a. ১৯৯০ সালে b. ১৯৮৮ সালে c. ১৯৯৪ সালে 

d. আই.বি.এম 

d. ১৯৯৮ সালে 

ENCONDUCT IT SOLUTION SOLUTION CORN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Question Bank 

TOWER CACTTT 200 SOLUTION CEDIPACY IT XD ELUTEN COMPACT BUTIN CEMPACT ET ZO SELTER COMPACT TITI DE QUEDOST 

12. TCP দিয়ে কোনটি বোঝানো হয়? 

c. প্রোগ্রামিং 

d. ফ্লোচার্ট 

a. প্রোগ্রাম 

b. প্রোটোকল 13. ই-মেইল আদান প্রদানে ব্যবহৃত SMTP-এর পূর্ণরূপ কী? 

a. Simple Message Transmission Protocol c. Strategic Mail Transmission Protocol 14. Push এবং Pop নিচের কার সাথে সম্পর্কিত ? 

a. Queue 

a. তামার তার 

b. Stack 

c. Union 

Nosa noia MCQ 

DANDCOND ACT IT 

Ans: b 

b. Strategic Mail Transfer Protocolier d. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol 

d. Array 

Ans: d 

Ans: b 

d. উপরের সবকটি 

Ans: c 

15. ওয়াই-ফাই (Wi-Fi) নেটওয়ার্কে সংযোগের জন্য সংশ্লিষ্ট ডিভাইসটির সংযোগ মাধ্যম কোনটি? 

b. অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার c. তারহীন সংযোগ 

RA 

৩৬তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

a. (1100) 2 

1. নিচের কোন মেমোরিটি Non-volatile? 

a. SRAM 

2. নিচের কোন উক্তিটি সঠিক? 

a. 1 কিলোবাইট = 1024 বাইট c. 1 কিলোবাইট = 1000 বাইট 

3. (1011)2+(0101)2=? 

b. (11000)2 

4. Boolean Algebra- এর নিচের কোনটি সঠিক? 

b. DRAM 

c. ROM 

d. উপরের সবগুলোই 

Ans: c 

b. 1 মেগাবাইট = 1024 বাইট d. 1 মেগাবাইট = 1000 বাইট 

Ans: a 

c. (01100) 2 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: d 

a. A+Ā=1 

b. A.A=1 

tros fac. A+A-2A 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: a 

5. 

8086 কত বিটের মাইক্রোপ্রসেসর? 

a. 8 

b. 16 

c. 32 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: b 

6. নিচের কোনটি ডাটাবেজ language? 

a. Oracle 7. নিচের কোনটি কম্পিউটারের প্রাইমারি মেমোরি? 

b. C 

c. MS-Word 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: a 

dena. RAM 

b. Hard Disk 

c. Pen Drive 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: a 

a. ইনপুট 

b. আউটপুট 

b. Java 

8. Plotter কোন ধরনের ডিভাইস? 

9. নিচের কোনটি 3G Language নয়? 

a. C 

c. Assembly Language 10. Wi-Fi কোন স্ট্যান্ডার্ড-এর উপর ভিত্তি করে কাজ করে? 

a. IEEE 802.11 b. IEEE 804.11 11. নিচের কোনটিতে সাধারণত ইনফ্রারেড ডিভাইস ব্যবহার করা হয়? 

a. WAN b. Satellite Communication 

12. Wi MAX এর পূর্ণরূপ কী? 

a. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access b. Worldwide Internet for Microwave Access 

c. Worldwide Interconnection for Microwave Access 

OCT 17 18 BOUTEN COMPACT IT SOLIVEN CEPACT ET 2018 BOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 RELATED COMPACT IT SAUTION COMPACT 200ELLE COVET IT AD SOLUTION 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 MOTTE Page | 269 

c. মেমোরি 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: b 

d. Machine Language Ans: c+d 

c. IEEE 803.11 

d. IEEE 806.11 

Ans: a 

c. MAN 

d. TV রিমোর্ট কন্ট্রোলে 

Ans: d 

Question Bank 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

13. Mobile Phone-এর কোনটি input device নয়? 

b. Touch Screen 

a. Keypad 

14. LinkedIn এর ক্ষেত্রে কোনটি সঠিক? 

Nnus nodes MCQ 

JOB SOLUTION PACT SOLUTION OCTOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

Ans: a 

c. Camera 1 d. Power Supply 

Ans: d 

b. এটি ২০০২ সালে প্রতিষ্ঠিত d. উপরের সবগুলোই 

Hau Ans: d 

a. এটি একটি বিজনেস অরিয়েন্টেড সোস্যাল নেটওয়ার্কিং সার্ভিস c. ২০০৬ সালে এটির সদস্য সংখ্যা ২০ মিলিয়নের অধিক হয় 15. কমিউনিকেশন সিস্টেমে গেটওয়ে কী কাজে ব্যবহার হয়? 

a. বিভিন্ন নেটওয়ার্ক ডিভাইস সংযুক্ত করার কাজে 

১ : b. দু ইবা তার অধিক ভিন্ন ধরনের নেটওয়ার্ককে সংযুক্তি করার কাজে 

c. এটি নেটওয়ার্ক হাব কিংবা সুইচের মতোই কাজ করে d. কোনটিই নয় 

1. কম্পিউটার সিস্টেম এ Scanner কোন ধরনের যন্ত্র? 

b. Output 

a. Input 2. কম্পিউটারের মূল মেমোরি তৈরি হয় কী দিয়ে? 

Ans: b 

৩৫তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

M 

c. উভয়েই 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: a 

a. এ্যালুমিনিয়াম 

b. প্লাসটিক 

c. সিলিকন 

d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: c 

3. Back up প্রোগ্রাম বলতে কী বোঝানো হয়? 

a. নির্ধারিত ফাইল কপি করা 

11011 

c. সবশেষ পরিবর্তন Undo করা 

b. আগের প্রোগ্রামে ফিরে যাওয়া d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: a 

b. ২০০৬ 

4. কম্পিউটার মেমোরি থেকে সংরক্ষিত ডাটা উত্তোলনের পদ্ধতিকে কী বলে? 

a. Read-out 

5. MICR-এর পূর্ণরূপ কী ? 

a. Magnetic Ink Character Reader c. Magnetic Ink Case Reader 

6. প্রোগ্রাম থেকে কপি করা ডাটা কোথায় থাকে? 

a. RAM 

7. একটি প্রতিষ্ঠানে ডিভাইস ভাগাভাগি করে নেওয়ার সুবিধা হলো- 

a. অর্থ সাশ্রয় 8. নিচের কোন সাইটটি কেনা-বেচার জন্য নয়? b42a. ekhanei.com b. Olx.com 

9. নিচের কোনটি ছাড়া Internet-এ প্রবেশ করা সহজ নয়? 

a. Task bar 

b. Notification area c. Menu bar 10. সোশ্যাল নেটওয়ার্কিং টুইটার কত সালে তৈরি হয়? 

a. ২০০৪ 11. নিচের কোন স্মার্টফোন অপারেটিং সিস্টেমটি ওপেন সোর্স প্লাটফর্ম? 

a. IOS 12. নিচের কোনটি ডাটাবেজ ল্যাংগুয়েজ? 

a. Data Definition Language 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

b. Read from 

c. Read 

d. উপরের সবগুলোই Ans: d 

b. Magnetic Ink Code Reader d. কোনটিই নয় 

Ans: a 

b. Clipboard 

c. Terminal 

d. Hard Disk 

Ans: b 

b. সময় সাশ্রয় 

c. স্থানের সাশ্রয় 

d. উপরের সবকটি 

Ans: d 

c. google.com d. amazon.com 

Ans: c 

d. Web browser 

Ans: d 

c. ২০০৩ 

d. ২০০৮ 

Ans: b 

b. Windows phone 

c. Android 

d. Symbian 

Ans: c 

b. Data Manipulation Language 

NCTB BOOTY BUT CONTENT ATTENDANT DESOLUTION CODE 

TUTER CONSOLECHE DIPACT IT 

BOLTU Page | 270 

Question Bank 

SOLUTINO NOTE BUURTON COPPACT ST JOS SOLLTEN COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT OR BUTOR DOCTER PICTS 

MCQ 

ODPACT IT 

c. Query Language 

d. উপরের সবগুলোই 

Ans: d 

b. ভিডিও কল 

13. নিচের কোন কমিউনিকেশনে 4G এর ক্ষেত্রে 3G এর তুলনায় অতিরিক্ত বৈশিষ্ট্য কী? 

a. ভয়েস টেলিফোনি 14. Oracle Corporation এর প্রতিষ্ঠিাতা কে ? 

a. Bill Gates 

c. মোবাইল টিভি d. ব্রডব্যান্ড ইন্টারনেট সেবা 

Ans: d 

b. Tim Cook 

c. Andrew S Grove 

d. Lawrence J. Ellison 

15. পারসোনাল কম্পিউটার যুক্ত করে নিচের কোনটি তৈরি করা যায়? 

a. Super Computer 

1. The term PC means - 

a. Private Computer 

b. Network 

৩৪তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

Ans: d 

c. Server 

d. Enterprise 

Ans: b 

b. Prime Computer 

c. Personal Computer 

d. Professional Computer 

Ans: c 

৩৩তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. ইন্টারনেট চালুর বছর- 

a. ১৯৫৯ 

b. ১৯৬৫ 

c. ১৯৬৯ 

d. ১৯৮১ 

Ans: c 

৩২তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. কম্পিউটার ভাইরাস কি? 

a. ওয়াইম্যাক্স 

a. একটি ক্ষতিকারক জীবানু 

c. একটি ক্ষতিকারক চৌম্বক ফ্লাক্স 

2. কোনটি তারবিহীন দ্রুতগতির ইন্টারনেট সংযোগের জন্য উপযোগী? 

3. অপটিক্যাল ফাইবাওে আলোর কোন ঘটনাটি? 

b. একটি ক্ষতিকারক সার্কিট 

d. একটি ক্ষতিকারক প্রোগ্রাম 

Ans: d 

b. সি-মস 

c. বু-টুথ 

d. ব্রডব্যান্ড 

Ans: a 

a. প্রতিসরণ 

b. বিচ্ছুরণ 

c. অপবর্তন 

d. অভ্যন্তরীণ প্রতিফলন 

Ans: d 

4. মডেম-এর মধ্যে যা থাকে তা হলো- 

a. একটি মডুলেটর 

c. একটি কোডেক 

b. একটি মডুলেটর ও একটি ডিমডুলেটর 

d. একটি এনকোডার 

Ans; b 

5. BTRC- এর ইংরেজি পূর্ণরূপ কোনটি? 

a. Bangladesh Telephone Regulatory Commission 

b. Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission 

c. Bangladesh Telecom Regulatory Commission 

d. Bangladesh Telephone and Telegraph Regulatory Commission 

৩১তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার (Optical fibre) হচ্ছে- 

a. খুব সরু এবং নমনীয় কাচ তন্তুর আলোক নল c. খুব সরু এসবেস্টোস ফাইবার নল 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

11 

b. খুব সূক্ষ্ম সুপরিবাহী তামার তার তন্তু নল d. সূক্ষ্ম প্লাস্টিক ঘটিত নল 

Ans: b 

Ans; a 

SUDACT IT 

HOT 

Page | 271 

یا 

b. ইন্টারকম 

c.. ইন্টারনেট ৩০তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

Question Bank 

MCQ 

TITUTER CITY BOUNCEDURE TEN ROUTION CHINCT IT JOB SOLUTER COMPACT IT JOBS EDUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

2. কম্পিউটার-টু-কম্পিউটারের তথ্য আদান-প্রদানের প্রযুক্তিকে বলা হয়- 

a. ই-মেইল 

Ans: c 

d. টেলিকমিউনিকেশন 

1. অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার (Optical fibre) হচ্ছে- 

a. খুব সরু এবং নমনীয় কাচ তন্তুর আলোক নল c. খুব সরু এসবেস্টোস ফাইবার নল 

b. খুব সূক্ষ্ম সুপরিবাহী তামার তার তন্তু নল d. সূক্ষ্ম প্লাস্টিক ঘটিত নল 

Ans: a 

২৯তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. কম্পিউটারের স্থায়ী স্মৃতিশক্তিকে কি বলে? 

a. RAM 

b. ROM 

c. হার্ডওয়্যার 

d. সফ্টওয়্যার 

Ans: b 

২৮তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. পৃথিবীতে কখন ল্যাপটপ কম্পিউটার প্রবর্তিত হয় এবং কোন কোম্পানি এটা তৈরি করে? 

a. কমপ্যাক, ১৯৮৫ 

b. এপসন, ১৯৮১ 

c. আইবিএম, ১৯৮৩ ২৬তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

d. অ্যাপল, ১৯৭৭ 

Ans: b 

1. ডিজিটাল ঘরি বা ক্যালকুলেটরে কালচে অনুজ্জ্বল যে লেখা ফুটে উঠে তা কিসের ভিত্তিতে তৈরি? 

a. এলইডি b. আইসি 

c. এলসিডি 

d. সিলিকন চিপ 

Ans: d 

২৪তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি পরীক 

1. 'ল্যাপটপ' কি? 

a. ছোট কুকুর 

b. পর্বতারোহণ সামগ্রী 

c. বাদ্যযন্ত্র 

d. ছোট কম্পিউটার 

Ans: d 

2. কম্পিউটার-টু-কম্পিউটারের তথ্য আদান-প্রদানের প্রযুক্তিকে বলা হয়- 

a. ই-মেইল 

b. ইন্টারকম 

c. ইন্টারনেট 

d. টেলিকমিউনিকেশন 

Ans: c 

২৩তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

3. কম্পিউটারে কোনটি নেই? 

Heborgnals 

a. স্মৃতি 

c. দীর্ঘ সময় কাজ করার ক্ষমতা 

b. বুদ্ধি বিবেচনা 

d. নির্ভুল কাজ করার ক্ষমতা 

Ans: b 

২১তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

a. এক ধরনের বিশেষ কম্পিউটার প্রোগ্রাম 

1. কম্পিউটার ভাইরাস হলো- 

c. কম্পিউটারের যন্ত্রাংশের মধ্যে জমে থাকা ধূলা d. কম্পিউটারের কোনো যন্ত্রাংশ সার্কিটে ঢিলা কানেকশন 

b. কম্পিউটারের যন্ত্রাংশে কোথাও শর্টসার্কিট 

Ans: a 

1 

ICT BY CD CT SOLUTIONS CUTTINCT SOLUTION DANCE CITJOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION CHRONIC IT JOB SOLUTION DUTTEN CORNET DUA 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJOS BOLTS Page | 272 

Question Bank 

TUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION CICT IS CUTIENT AT T 

MCQ 

২০তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. কম্পিউটার কে আবিষ্কার করেন? 

a. উইলিয়াম অটরেড 

b. ব্লইসি প্যাসকেল c. হাওয়ার্ড আইকন 

d. আবাকাস 

Ans: c 

১৯তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. কম্পিউটার সফটওয়ারের জগতে নামকরা প্রতিষ্ঠান কোনটি? 

a. অলিভেটি b. আইবিএম 

c. অ্যাপেল ম্যাকিনটশ d. মাইক্রোসফট্ 

Ans: d 

১৭তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. ‘ল্যাপটপ' হলো এক ধরনের- a. পর্বতারোহণ সামগ্রী 

b. ছোট কুকুর বাদ্যযন্ত্র 

d. ছোট কম্পিউটার 

Ans: d 

১৬তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. ডিজিটাল টেলিফোনের প্রধান বৈশিষ্ট্য- 

a. ডিজিটাল সিগন্যালে বার্তা প্রেরণ c. অপটিক্যাল ফাইবার 

b. বোতাম টিপে ডায়াল করা ily Juga d. নতুন ধরনের মাইক্রোফোন 

১২তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

Ans: a 

1. রিমোট সেন্সিং বা দূর অনুধাবন বলতে বিশেষভাবে বুঝায়- 

a. রেডিও ট্রান্সমিটার সহযোগে দূর থেকে তথ্য সংগ্ৰহ b. রাডারের সাহায্যে চারদিকের পরিবেশের অবলোকন c. কোয়াসার প্রভৃতি মহাজাতিক উৎস থেকে সংকেত অনুধাবন d. উপগ্রহের সাহায্যে দূর থেকে ভূমন্ডলের অবলোকন 

১১তম বিসিএস প্রিলিমিনারি 

1. কম্পিউটারের সফটওয়্যার বলতে বুঝানো হয়- 

a. এর প্রোগ্রাম বা কর্ম পরিকল্পনার কৌশল (TH TOA b. তথ্য দেয়া ও তথ্য নেয়ার অংশ বিশেষ 

c. যেসব অংশ মুদ্রায়িত অবস্থায় থাকে 

d. কম্পিউটার তৈরির নকশা 

Ans: d 

Ans: a 

2. মাইক্রোওয়েভের মাধ্যমে যে টেলিযোগাযোগ ব্যবস্থা আমাদের দেশে প্রচলিত তাতে মাইক্রোওয়েভ অধিকাংশ দূরত্ব অতিক্রম 

করে- 

a. ওয়েভ গাইডের মধ্য দিয়ে 

c. বিশেষ ধরনের ক্যাবলের মধ্য দিয়ে 

b. ভূমি ও আয়নোস্ফেয়ারের মধ্যে প্রতিফলন হতে হবে d. খোলামেলা জায়গার মধ্য দিয়ে সরল রেখায় 

Ans: a 

“অপরকে অপমান করার স্পৃহা ও প্রতিভা বাঙ্গালির অপার। প্রতিপক্ষকে তুচ্ছতাচ্ছিল্য করার মধ্যে তার আনন্দ অশেষ।” 

BSOLUTEN COPNO TOQUUTEN COMPACT EURO 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

AUTOCOMPACT IT 

Page | 273**