
### 1. Which circuit can be used as a parallel to the serial converter?

 a ) decoder

(b) De-multiplexer

(c) An encoder

(d) Multiplexer

###### Ans:
d

>Note: A combinational circuit that selects one from many inputs is known as Multiplexer. In multiplexer, different inputs are inserted parallel and then it gives one output which is in serial form 5. Which function in the following expression will be called first?

### a= func3(6)-func2 (4,5)/func(1,2,3);

(a) func1 (b)func2() (c) fund 3()

(4) Cannot be predicted

##### Ans:d

### 6. An organization is granted block 130.34.12.64/26. Find the number of addresses for

the whole network

640 128

0932

Note: N-2-2-64

(4) 256

7. Difference between Latch and Flip-flop

(a) Flip-flop has a clock but Latch doesn't have

Ans:d

(b) Flip-flop is edge-triggered but Latch is level triggered

(4)Notre

Аве

Note: Flip-flop is a modified version of lnch. To determine the changes in states, an additional

8. Which of the following sequence that a microprocessor follows?

(b) Fetch, execute, decode

(4)Decode, fetch, execute

(4) Execute, decode, fech

Note:

te: The microprocessor follows a sequence: Fetch, Decode and then Execute

9. If the message bit is 111 then the Even-parity bit will be:

(4)1111

Ans:a

Ans:b

Note: A parity bit, known as a check bit, is a single bit that can be appended to a binary ringt

parity")

10. What is the content of Stack Pointer (SP)?

An address in the main memory is called

(a) Address of the current instruction (b) Address of the next instruction (c) Address of the top element of the stack (4) Size of the stack

Ans

11.

(4) Physical address

(0) Memory address

(b) Logical address

(6) Word address

(4) Decimal (b) BCD

(c)

(4) Hexadecimal

A

Ans:

12. Which of the following format is usually used to store data?

Note: The datally used by computers have to be stored and represented in a particular format for

13. If in an RLC series clecule source voltage 100sinut V, Resistance 10 Ohm, inductive reactance 10 ohm and capacitive reactance 10 ohm then current in the circuit will be

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION

Page 21

Question Bank

(a) 10A 3.33A (c) 3.33A

(d) 10A

14. A number of operations processes per second by a processor is called-

(a) Instruction processor

(c) Clock Speed

(b) Bandwidth

Frequency

15. The voltage induced in an inductor is represented as

(a) product of its inductance and current through it

(b) ratio of its inductance to the current through it

(c) ratio of current through it to its inductance

(d) product of its inductance and rate of change of current through it

MCQ

A

Ans:

Ans:d

Note: The voltage induced in an inductor is represented as product of its inductance and current

through it ratio of its inductance to g

16. What will be the output of the following code?

#include<stdio.h>

int main()

register static int i=10;

1117

printf("\n", 1);

return 0;

**