**Question Bank **  (157 Questions)

Note: 

An68 noides MCQ 

TEENS BOLLEN GEXPOPACT IT JOB SELUSTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTENCOMPACT I 

Division 300/16 = 18 

12=C 

Remainder (R) 

sourdesigh 041 IT 

18/16 = 1 

2 

SUSBO (A 

1/16=0 

1 

0/16=0 

0 

dno mon beyomsito 

50 cesible 4X 

MESL (A 

12. Binary Search Tree Time complexity PO? 

B) O(n log n) 

C) O(log n) 

D) O(n2) 

Ans: C 

A) O(n) Note: Binary Search tree can be defined as a class of binary trees, in which the nodes are arranged in a specific order. This is also called ordered binary tree. Searching in a BST has O(h) worst-case runtime complexity, where h is the height of the tree. Since s binary search tree with n nodes has a minimum of O(log n) levels, it takes at least O(log n) comparisons to find a particular node. 13. ইন্টারনেট নেটওয়ার্কে Media Access করার জন্য কোন পদ্ধতি ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

C) Demand Priority 

31 

A) CSMA/CD B) CSMA/CA 

D) Polling Ans: A Note: Carrier-sense multiple access with collision detection (CSMA/CD) is a media access control (MAC) method used most notably in early Ethernet technology for local area networking. It uses carrier-sensing to defer transmissions until no other stations are transmitting. 14. C programming এ address রাখার জন্য কোনটি সাধারণত ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

A) break 

B) pointer 

C) char 

D) float 

Ans: B Note: Pointers in C language is a variable that stores/points the address of another variable. A Pointer in C is used to allocate memory dynamically i.e. at run time. The pointer variable might be belonging to any of the data type such as int, float, char, double, short etc. 15. FTP protocol নিচের কোনটি ব্যবহার করে? 

B) TCP 

C) UDP 

libns 

D) SMTP 

Ans: B 

A) IP Note: File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is an application layer protocol which moves files between local and remote file systems. It runs on the top of TCP, like HTTP. To transfer a file, 2 TCP connections are used by FTP in parallel: control connection and data connection. 16. Congestion Control কোন layer-এ করা হয়? 

B) Data link C) Network 

sta yloupiou os botanglesb 

D) Transport 

A) Physical 

Ans: D Note: The transport layer provides mechanisms such as error control, flow control and congestion control to keep track of the data packets, check for errors and duplication and resend the information that fails delivery. 

17. নিচের কোনটি Genetic algorithm এর একটি operator? 

B) Population 

DR DIREZ nismalt 201 

debA) Mutation 

C) Gene MMKD) Individual Ans: A Note: A genetic operator is an operator used in genetic algorithms to guide the algorithm towards a solution to a given problem. There are three main types of operators (mutation, crossover and selection). 

18. Virtually memory হিসেবে RAM এর পাশাপাশি কোনটি ব্যবহার হয়? 

A) Cache 

B) CPU Register 

C) CD-ROM 

CONSACT IT JOB SOLUTE COUPERACY IT OUTER CONCT IT JOB SOLVE COMPACT ETDED OOMPACTTY SOLUTION COMPACT ET SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOBBUTION COMPACT IT JOB 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT 

D) Hard disk 

Ans: D 

EN COMPACT ET 308 SOLUTION COMPACT ET 208 BOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJOR 800 TI Page | 138 

7 

Question Bank 

ined noua MCQ 

PRACY IT IS SOLLTEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT BOUTEN CEPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT 108 SOLUTION COMPACT ETCT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLTER COMPACT ET JE SOUTEN CONVICT BY IS SOLTERCOMPACT IT 

Note: Virtual memory is a memory management capability of an operating system (OS)- which uses hardware and software to allow a computer to compensate for physical memory shortages, by temporarily transferring data from random access memory (RAM) to disk storage. Virtual address space is increased using active memory in RAM and inactive memory in Hard Disk Drives (HDDs), to form contiguous addresses that hold both the application and its data. 

19. C programming Language এ কোনো loop থেকে তৎক্ষণাৎ বের করার জন্য উল্লিখিত কোনটি ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

A) break 

B) switch 

C) continue 

Ans: A 

D) if Note: The break is a keyword in C which is used to bring the program control out of the loop. The break statement is used inside loops or switch statement. The break statement breaks the loop one by 

one. 

20. কোন Routing Protocol এ Dijkstra Algorithm ব্যবহার করা হয়? 

B) OSPF 

C) RIP 

D) IGRP 

Ans: B 

A) ARP Note; EIGRP uses Diffusing Update Algorithm (Advanced Distance-Vector Routing Protocol), and both IS-IS and OSPF use Dijkstra's Algorithm (Link-State Routing Protocol). 

21. উল্লেখিত কোনটি Database aggregate এর function? 

A) where 

B) sum 

C) select 

D) from 

Ans: B 

Note: The ISO standard defines five (5) aggregate functions namely: COUNT, SUM, AVG, MIN, 

MAX. 

22. Max - Heap data structure এর সবচেয়ে বড় নম্বরটি কোথায় থাকে? 

B) Internal node 

C) Root 

D) Outside 

Ans: C 

A) Leaf Note: In a Max-Heap the key present at the root node must be greatest among the keys present at all of its children. The same property must be recursively true for all sub-trees in that Binary Tree. 23. 10101111 ও 00110011 এর Bitwise OR এর ফলাফল কত? 

A) 10111111 

B) 00100011 C) 01010101 D) 11111111 

Ans: A 

Note: The result of the bitwise OR operation is 1 if at least one of the expression has the value as 1; otherwise, the result is always 0. 

24. C programming Invalid variable name? - gedign 

2nA) Averaged B) No#of-students 

Note: 

C) Xyz 

D) y23z 

All variable names must begin with a letter of the alphabet or an underscore(). After the first initial letter, variable names can also contain letters and numbers. Variable names are case sensitive and No spaces or special characters are allowed. 

25. নিচের কোন Operation টি CPU তে দ্রুত কাজ করে? 

D) Division 

Ans: B 

Ans: B 

A) Multiplication B) Bitwise OR C) Addition Note: I know that bit-wise operations are so fast on modern processors, because they can operate on 32 or 64 bits on parallel, so bit-wise operations take only one clock cycle. However, addition is a complex operation that consists of at least one and possibly up to a dozen bit-wise operations, so I naturally thought it will be 3-4 times slower. I was surprised to see after a simple benchmark that addition is exactly as fast as any of the bit-wise operations (XOR, OR, AND etc). 

টি 

26. DHCP discover message fceala yan? 

ACT ST 2 SOLUTION COMPACT TY XO SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT BUSTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT ET SOLUTIEN COMPACT ID 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DUTEN COMPACT IT 

COMPACT 

WUTERCEPACT IT 

MOITUJOS 800 T1 Page | 139 

Ivank 

Insa noitas MCQ 

ETIT 208 BOLAFEN CONVICTI DODONT DUTEN CORVETTER COMPACT 

B) Multicast 

A) Unicast 

BEDDENCY OLUFEN COCYTY ED SUPERCENCY TEATER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTOR COMPACT ET JO BOLUTEN COMPACT IT 208 HOLLTENCOMPACT ZY 

C) Broadcast 

D) Anycast 

Ans: C Note: The DHCP client broadcasts a DHCPDISCOVER message on the network subnet using the destination address 255.255.255.255 (limited broadcast) or the specific subnet broadcast address (directed broadcast). A DHCP client may also request its last known IP address. If the client remains connected to the same network, the server may grant the request. Otherwise, it depends whether the server is set up as authoritative or not. 

27. নিচের কোনটি সবচেয়ে দ্রুত Data transfer করতে পারে? 

D) Cache Memory 

Ans: D 

A) RAM B) Hard disk C) CD ROM Note: Cache memory is an extremely fast memory type that acts as a buffer between RAM and the CPU. It holds frequently requested data and instructions so that they are immediately available to the CPU when needed. Cache memory is used to reduce the average time to access data from the Main memory. 

28. কোনটি Social media network নয়? 

A) LinkedIn 

B) Google+ 

C) Internet Explorer 

D) Twitter 

Ans: C 

Note: Some popular social media network: Facebook, LinkedIn, Google+, Twitter, You Tube, flickr, Imgur, Influenster, FilmAffinity, Open Diary, Bubbly etc. 

29. facts aft E-mail protocol? 

A) SMTP 

B) USB 

C) IOT 

D) OTB 

08 

Ans: A 

Note: The Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is a communication protocol for electronic mail transmission. 

30. উল্লেখিত কোনটি Private IP address? 

A) 192.169.10.10 B) 11.5.10.10 C) 1.1.1.1 

D) 172.16.5.3 

Ans: D 

31. Email service এর সাথে কোনটি সম্পৃক্ত? 

1002 1110OTGUES 

A) Telnet B) SMTP C) SSH 

D) DHCP 

10 Ans: B 

32. কোনটি UDP protocol use করে? 

A) SMTP 

B) HTTP 

C) DNS 

D) FTP 

Ans: C 

33. কোনটি Cloud Computing এর সাথে সম্পৃক্ত নয়? 

A) Fog Computing 

B) PaaS 

C) Key board (D) SaaS 

Ans: A 

Note: Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. These resources include tools and applications like data storage, servers, databases, networking and software. 34. Array data structure এ কোন ধরনের data রাখা যায়? 

A) various type data 

C) Classes data 

B) Only pointer type data 

D) Same type many data 

A 

Ans: D 

Note: An array is a data structure for storing more than one data item that has a similar data type. The items of an array are allocated at adjacent memory locations. These memory locations are called elements of that array. 

35. Find output in C- Program: 

#include<stdio.h> 

int main() { 

printf("%c",100); return 0; 

DONED SOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOD SOLLTEN COMPACT ET DBSOLUTEN COMPACT IT FOR SOLUTER COPACTW COMPACT ET JOB SOLATION COMPACT ETTER COMPACT IT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT IT JOB SELASTEN COMPACT ST JOS BOLSTERN COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT STADS BOLASTERCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJO2 800 Y 

Page | 140 

Question Bank 

COMPACT IT 23 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT ITS BOLSTERN 

20MCQ 

SOLUTTE-COPACT TY JOB SOUTER COMPACT SOLUTION COPACT TADPACT II 18 SUTEN OCT IT JOB SOLTEN COMPACT ID QUOCOMPACT ST 

} A) 100 

B) one hundred 

C) d 

D) 0 

36. সাধারনত Star topology LAN এর central controller কে কি বলা হয়? 

A) Node 

B) Hub 

C) Router 

D) Modem 

Ans: C 

Ans: B 

Note: A star topology is a topology for a Local Area Network (LAN) in which all nodes are individually connected to a central connection point, like a hub or a switch. 

37. কোন Testing দিয়ে Input-Output ঠিক আছে কিনা বুঝা যায়? 

A) Black-box Testing 

C) White-box testing 

B) Integration Testing D) Load Testing 

Ans: A 

Note: Black Box Testing is a software testing method in which the functionalities of software applications are tested without having knowledge of internal code structure, implementation details and internal paths. Black Box Testing mainly focuses on input and output of software applications and it is entirely based on software requirements and specifications. It is also known as Behavioral Testing. 38. Object Oriented programming 

A) Polymorphism 

C) Structure 

ferlaft? B) Friend function D) Loop 

Ans: A 

Note: Object-Oriented Programming or OOPS refers to languages that uses objects in programming. Object-oriented programming aims to implement real-world entities like inheritance, hiding, polymorphism etc. in programming. The main aim of OOP is to bind together the data and the functions that operate on them so that no other part of the code can access this data except that function. 

39. C programming language এ নিচের কোনটিকে “if” দিয়ে Replace করা যায়? 

A) switch 

B) structure C) return 

D) for 

Ans: A 

Note: Switch statement in C tests the value of a variable and compares it with multiple cases. Once the case match is found, a block of statements associated with that particular case is executed. 

BTRC 

Sub-Assistant Director (Technical) Exam: 2019 (IBA) 

1. পরিসংখ্যানের বিভিন্ন পরিমাপ নির্ণয়ের জন্য নিচের কোনটি ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

A. MS Word 

B. MS Access C. MS Excel D. MS Power Point 

Ans: C 

Note: Microsoft Excel is a spreadsheet developed by Microsoft for Windows, macOS, Android and iOS. It features calculation, graphing tools, pivot tables and a macro programming language called Visual Basic for Applications 

2. 

কপি ফরমেট করার শর্টকাট কোনটি? 

A. Clt+C 

B. Shift+C 

C. Clt+Shift+C 

D. Alt + Shift +C Ans: C 

Note: Press Ctrl+Shift+C to copy the formatting (make sure include the Shift as Ctrl+C only copies the text). 

12 

3. Number systems used in the computer is known as: 

COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 ROLLITION COMPACT ET LUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT OR SOLUTION COMPACT ITXOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 

PACTE 

ASTEIN COMPACT TS SOLTER COMPACT TOOWOOMBADOOPPACT ST 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

TUJOZ 600T Page | 141 

Question Bank 

Hned notas MCQ 

STRON COMPACY IY 200EATION COMPACT IT JOB DUTEN COMPACT IT JOB BOASTENCOMPACT I 

UDDY BOUTER COCT DOWN ON 

DROOPY TAB SAUDIOPACT OLUYOR COMPACT EY 

A. Octal System 

B. Decimal System 

D. Real System 

C. Binary System 

Ans: C 

Note: Binary number system, in mathematics, positional numeral system employing 2 as the base and so requiring only two different symbols for its digits, 0 and 1, instead of the usual 10 different symbols needed in the decimal system. 

4. Consist of Instructions that control the computers 

A. Programs 

B. List 

C. Keyboard 

D. File 

Ans: A 

Note: Software, instructions that tell a computer what to do. Software comprises the entire set of programs, procedures and routines associated with the operation of a computer system. 

5. Which type of Software can translate scanned text into text that one can edit? 

A. OCS B. ORC 

C. OCR 

D. ORS 

Ans: C Note: Optical Character Recognition, or OCR, is a technology that enables to convert different types of documents, such as scanned paper documents, PDF files or images captured by a digital camera into editable and searchable data. 

6. Active matrix displays use 

A. TGT 

Technology. 

B. TFT 

C. FTF 

D. TCT 

Ans: B Note: TFT stands for thin-film-transistor, which is a variant of liquid crystal display (LCD). TFTs are categorized as active matrix LCDs, which means that they can simultaneously retain certain pixels on a screen while also addressing other pixels using minimal amounts of energy. 

7. To remove a program from your computer you can it, 

A. remove 

B. delete 

C. store 

D. uninstall 

Ans; D 

Note: Programs and Features. Press and hold (or right-click) on the program you want to remove and select Uninstall or Uninstall/Change. 

Which one is an example of hybrid network? 

8. 

A. LAN B. RAN 

C. WAN 

D. TAN 

a 

Howd isto 

Ans: C 

Note: A wide area network is a telecommunications network that extends over a large geographic area for the primary purpose of computer networking. Wide area networks are often established with leased telecommunication circuits. 

9. The abbreviation of bps stands for- 

A. bytes per second 

C. bandwidth per second 

B. bit per second 

D. baud rate per second. 

Ans: B 

Note: Bps is a standard way to measure data transfer rates, such as network connection and Internet download speeds. In the early days of the Internet, data transfer speeds were measured in bps. 10. Which device converts the computer's digital data into analog signals? 

A. ATM 

B. Router 

C. Modem 

D. Packet. 

Ans: C 

Note: A modem is a device that translates digital signals from a computer into analog form so that they can be transmitted over analog telephone lines. The modem also translates analog signals back into digital form for the receiving computer. 11, FTP site are often called 

A. Server 

B. host 

C. groups 

D. domain 

tes hond T 

10002 

Ans: D 

DNCIDQUD DROTBOWTIER COMPACT LEONID SOLUTEN COMPACT ET ON SOUTEN COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACTIT BSOLUTEN COMPACT ET FOOD SW 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

PACT E XOB SOLUTION CO 

EN COMPACT ET 100 SOLUSTERIN COMPACT I JOS SOLTERCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJ02 800 1 Page:|1142 

Bot 

Question Bank 

dns@ nolles MCQ 

PRICE E SIS-COLLATION COMPACT ET SOS BOLLATION COMPACT IT JOBBOLLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLSTEIN COPPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COROPACT TY XUATION CEPACT TECTED SCURTEN COMPACT I ES SOLUTEN COMPACT YES SOUTEN COMPACT TS 308 SOLUTION COMPACT IT OUTERNICOMPACT TY 

Note: The File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is a standard network protocol used for the transfer of computer files between a client and server on a computer network. FTP is built on a client-server model architecture using separate control and data connections between the client and the server. 12. An email address has a user name, the @ symbol and the 

C. Server 

D. Client 

computer's Name 

A. Provider 

B. Host 

Ans: C 

Note: A server is a computer that provides data to other computers. It may serve data to systems on a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN) over the Internet. Many types of servers exist, including web servers, mail servers and file servers. Each type runs software specific to the purpose of the server. 

13. Wi-Fi stands for the Wireless 

A. Fidelity 

B. Final 

C. Fidel 

D. Field 

Ans: A 

Note: Wi-Fi is a wireless networking technology that allows devices such as computers (laptops and desktops), mobile devices (smart phones and wearables), and other equipment (printers and video cameras) to interface with the Internet. 

14. You can connect an electronic instrument to your computer via the 

C. HDX 

D. MIDI MO! 

port. 

Ans: D 

A. PS2 

B. USB Note: MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) is a technical standard that describes a communications protocol, digital interface and electrical connectors that connect a wide variety of electronic musical instruments, computers and related audio devices for playing, editing and recording music.d 

15. Sockets and Winsock 3695 4DQW6AA The 

B. DSL 

C. IPX 

band BX LE vd bubregque 

D. API 

A. VCR 

and 900 Ans: D 

Note: A Windows sockets (Winsock) is an application programming interface (API) that allows for communication between Windows network software and network services, such as Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP). Winsock is based on the Berkeley Unix sockets interface. 16. Portable computer এ কোন ধরনের Monitor সচরাচর ব্যবহৃত হয়? 

C. Flat panel display 

Yique D. Data projector 

A. CRT B. Monochrome 

Ans: C Note: A flat panel display is a television, monitor or other display appliance that uses a thin panel design instead of a traditional cathode ray tube (CRT) design. These screens are much lighter and thinner and can be much more portable than traditional televisions and monitors. 17. 

are the two symbols present in the binary number system. 

B. 0 and 1 

A. 1 and 2 

D. 5 and 6 18. কোন সালে Bangladesh এ স্বয়ংক্রিয় Digital IT-Ex service শুরু করে? 

A. 1972 

woll 

C.8 and 9 

Ans: B 

C. 1981 

D. 1983 

Ans: C 

sail di no 

onsidh ed and W C. MAC OS D. Unix 

Ans: B 

19. সর্বাধিক ব্যবহৃত Operating system কোনটি? 

B. 1975 

B. Windows 

A. Linux Note: Windows comes preloaded on most new personal computers (PCs), which helps to make it the 

most popular operating system in the world. 

20. DNA ম্যাপিং করার জন্য কোন প্রযুক্তি ব্যবহার করা হয়? 

A. বায়োমেট্রি 

B. বায়োইনফরমেটিক্স 

C. রোবটি 

D. জেনেটিক্স 

Ans: D 

TERCOMPACT N 

2 800 TI Page | 143 

SPACES ET JED SELARTEN COMPA 

COMPACTED OUTER OODUD DVCT IT BE SOLUTION COMICTET J 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

1981 9 

Question Bank 

CONTADE OPETTE DUDE GROTE KUDD POTI 

inse noivas MCQ 

KLUTION COMPRETTY AND KOLUPEN COMPACT 21 20 SOLUTION COMPACT OF 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT OF OR SOUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT OF 208 SOLTERCOMPACT || 

BTRC 

Sub-Assistant Director (Technical) Exam: 2019 (IBA) 

robiyori 

1. The ration of number of successful calls to the number of all call attempts is known 

as: 

A. Call back rate (CBR) 

C. Busy hour call rate (BHCR) 

B. Call completion rate (CCR) D. Effective call rate (ECR) 

Ans: B Note: The Call Completion rate refers to the total number of calls that are initiated and connected successfully, in comparison to the number of calls that fail. A call failure can occur when there is an incorrect phone number, a non-answer or a customer declines the call. 

2. What is the acceptance value of dividing point between the wonder and jitter? 

B. 50 Hz 

C. 20 Hz 

D. 10 Hz 

A. 200 Hz 

Ans: D Note: A different set of measurements is used to characterize wander, the longer-term phase variations ranging from 10 Hz down to micro-Hertz and below. While jitter is normally measured with reference to a clock extracted from the data signal, wander is measured against an external reference clock. The fundamental measurement is of Time Interval Error (TIE). This represents the time deviation of the clock signal under test relative to the reference source. 

3. If the voice channel is free in PSTN then what would be the maximum data rate 

supported by 3.1 KHz bandwidth of voice channel? 

A. 4000 bps 

B. 5000 bps 

C. 6000 bps 

D. 8000 bps 

21 

Ans: C 

Note: We know, a voice channel in a PSTN is bandlimited with a nominal bandwidth of 3.1 kHz. A maximum data rate that a noiseless or ideal voice channel can support can be obtained from the Nyquist theorem, where D = Maximum data rate (in Baud or bps) B = Bandwidth of the channel L = Number of discrete levels in the signals. 

For a 3 kHz channel, and a binary signal, the maximum data rate is 6000 bps, if the signal level is two. 4. Which one is an example of DBMS? 

B. MS Excel 

C. C+ 

D. MS Access 

Ans: D 

A. MS word 

Note: Some popular DBMS system: MySQL, MS Access, Oracle, PostgreSQL, dBASE, SQLite, MariaDB, Microsoft SQL Server etc. 

5. How many unique signs could be specified by using ASCII-8? 

B. 256 

C. 512 

D. 65536 

Ans: B 

A. 128 

Note: The ASCII-based extended versions use this exact bit to extend the available characters to 256 (28). 

6. What is the distance between the line 8x+6y=17 and 8x+6y-37=0? 

C. 2 

D. 6 

A. -2 

7. Which of the following converts the documents written by HTML? 

B. 1 

B. FTP 

C. HTPP 

D. Web 

Ans: C 

Ans: A 

A. Browser 

Note: A web browser takes anywhere on the internet. When the web browser fetches data from an internet connected server, it uses a piece of software called a rendering engine to translate that data into text and images. 

CONRETTY ZO SUPER CDPICT ET XS SCAUTION COPPICTURE CEROPVICT BY JOB BELATION COMPACT BY 2018 LITEN COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SELLUTTER COMPACT IT) 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITU 

02.200 

Page | 144 

Question Bank 

SOLATTEN COMPACT 220 SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB BELLATION COMPACT T 

8. Which one transfers data at the highest speed? 

B. STP 

C. Co-axial-cable 

Ans& noizes MCQ 

PICTED SLATER CONVICT IT JOB SOUTER COMPACT ET DR SOLUTEN COMPACT IT SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

D. Fiber optic cable de Ans: D 

A. UTP 

Note: [See Sonali, Janata and RAKUB, AE (IT)/ AHME/ AME, Exam: 2020] 

9. Which one acts as the backbone of global village? 

D. Data 

A. Hardware B. Software plis C. Networks and connectivity 

Ans: C Note: Global village is an idea where all the people of the world will live as a single society and provide communication and services to each other through the use of information and communication technology. That is the world based on information and communication technology is called Global village. The backbone of global village is the network or connectivity through which data and information can be reached to every person in this universe. 

10. What is the power required by a pump to draw 10 liters of water to a height of 10 

meters, every second? 

A 

Amp & 

A. 980J B. 100 kw 

C. 900 w 

D. 960 kw 

11. What kind of energy is stored in a stressed spring? 

A. Potential energy 

B. Kinetic energy 

D. thermal energy 

Ans: A 

C. Chemical Energy 

Ans: A 

Note: Elastic potential energy is energy stored as a result of applying a force to deform an elastic object. The energy is stored until the force is removed and the object springs back to its original shape, doing work in the process. The deformation could involve compressing, stretching or twisting the object. 

12. Which time of the following properties of a body cannot be changed with an applied 

force? 

A. length B. mass 

C. shape 

D. volume 

Ans: B 

Note: Mass is conserved and cannot be created or destroyed while shape (by bending), speed and volume (by compression) can be changed by force. 

13. How much force should be exerted on a steel wire of cross-sectional area 0.1cm2 in 

order to double its length? (Y = 2×1011 N/m2) 

A. 2 × 106 N 

B. 2 × 107 N C. 2×108 N 

D. 2 × 109 N 

Note: Young's modulus of elasticity Y=AI/FL 

Ans: A 

To double the length 1=L 

:. Y=A/FF=YA 

=2×1011×0.1×10-4=2×10°N 

14. Which one of the following is equivalent hexadecimal number of (734)8? 

A. CID B. D1C 

D. 1DC 

Note: 

C. 1CD 

1 3 4 

111 011 100 = 0001 

1101 1100 

(13) (13) D 12 (C) 

Ans: D 

15. A wire resistance is 12 ohms. If it is divided into two parts and the parts are then 

connected in a parallel combination what will be resistance? 

A. 3 ohm 

B. 6 ohm 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

C. 12 ohm 

D. 24 ohm 

Ans: A 

GOONETE ES SLAVED COMPACT IDECOMPACT ITERATION COMPACT TENACTITUTER COMPACT TELURER COMPACT IT SUTEN COMPACT 

SOLSTER COMPACT EESTERS COMPACTES ELUTERCOMPACT IT 

MOITU 02 BOLTI Page | 145 

Question Bank 

TIBOUNDRY BUDDICT XI BLUEBORGTD UUD PACTLY JOB SOUTEN COMPACT NDQUENOOT DOUTORCTTY) 

Xinse nodes MCQ 

I ROLLTEN CEDERACY IS ABSOLUTION COMPACT BY 28 SOLUTEN COMPACT IS SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTECOMPACT 

16. When there is no forbidden region between the conductance band and valence band, 

the substance is called. 

A. semiconductor 

C. conductor 

B. 

D. insulator 

super conductor 

112.8 

400 

sas do Ans: C 

Note: A conductor is an object or type of material that allows the flow of charge (electrical current) in one or more directions. Materials made of metal are common electrical conductors. 

17. What is the angular momentum of the election in the lowest orbit of hydrogen 

atom? 

B. h/2 

С. h/2π 

D. 2π/h 

A. h 

Ans: C 18. In common base circuit of a transistor, current amplification factor is 0.95. 

Calculate the emitter current if base current is 0.2mA. 

A. 2mA 

B. 4mA 

C. 6mA 

D. 8mA 

Ans: B 

α 

E 

0982 

Note: Given: a=0.95 -0.2 mA, Current gain, ẞ= 1-α 

3012 

To bail and 

0.95 

1-0.95 

.. B= =19, Thus collector current Ic=ẞIb. Ic=19×0.2=3.8 mA Emitter current l. le .. le= 

3.8 

0.95 

= 4 mA 

ady ne how grop 

signs on five logoda od any bod's leathsgong golwollot sch To stat doW SI 

199701 

ARIZ 

174 16169 



01-5 0 Sarga lasi olduob of abso 

1. Jity of od duob 

G1) A 

haink egy ads bits chug end uni bolivih 11 12 1 soul & 81 

bar 

BOOTARUDI OROT 208 SLADEN COMPACT IT BOLATER COMPACT EDUERNOTEQUEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

TTBOWDONAT QUEN COMPACT 

COMPACT II XI-SOLLTEN CONVICT 17 18 23 

MOITUJO2 800 TI Page | 146 

Question Bank 

Anse house MCQ 

QUINONACT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT IT OR SOLUTE COMPACT IT IS SOLVERI CACT IT DR SOLLTEN CODICE ET EBS SOLARDONOTRUDICT ET 200 SCLAREN COM 

BELLTERCOMPACT EY 

Sonali & Janata Bank 

Officer (IT/ICT)-2019 Exam Taker: AUST 

30/ 

1. Let x be an integer which can take a value of 0 or 1. The statement if (x==0) x=1; 

else x=0; is equivalent to which of the following? 

GLA) x=1+x 

B) x=1-x 

C) x=x-1 

D) x=1%x 

Note: Firstly, our requirement is for x=1 it makes '0' and for x=0 it makes '1' 

Let's consider options one by one: 

A. x=1+x 

о 

· 

sid 

For x=1, it gives 2 So, False 

Ans: B 

Yautransmigrai 

B. x=1-x 

о 

Here, B is correct, as 

For x=0, it gives 1. (A For x=1, it gives 0. 

od of bra 

C. x=x-1 

FOX on D. x=1%x 

For x=0, it gives -1. So, False too din Rib to 801 noe or red naY 

qorges zoned iw supindo 

gamez 

O 

For x=0, it gives 1%0. It is undefined 

O 

Even if we consider x=x%1 

▪ for x=0, it gives 0%1=0 But we require 1. 

2. Suppose a C program has floating constant 1.414, what's the best way to convert it 

as a float data type? 

A) (float)1.414 

C) 1.414f or 1.414F 

B) float (1.414) 

D) None of these 

Ans: C 

Note: In C language, we have three floating data types i.e. float, double and long double. And the exact size of each of these 3 types depends on the C compiler implementation/platform. The following program can be used to find out the size of each floating data type on your machine. 3. Consider the following variable declarations and definitions in C: 

(ii) int 9 var=2 

- 

Choose the correct statement w.r.t above variables. 

(i) int var_9=1 

A) Both (i) and (ii) are valid 

C) Both (i) and (iii) are valid 

(iii) int 

=3 

- 

B) Only (i) is valid D) All of these 

Ans: C 

Note: To Declare any variable in C language you need to follow rules and regulation of C Language, which is given below:// 

G 

Every variable name should start with alphabets or underscore). 

No spaces are allowed in variable declaration. 

Except underscore ( no other special symbol are allowed in the middle of the variable declaration (not allowed -> roll-no, allowed -> roll_no). 

Maximum length of variable is 8 characters depend on compiler and operation system. 

Every variable name always should exist in the left hand side of assignment operator (invalid -> 10-a; valid -> a=10;). 

No keyword should access variable name (int for <- invalid because for is keyword). 

4. For a given integer, which of the following operators can be used to set and reset a 

particular bit respectively? 

PATEXIBLARE COMPACT 200 IN COMPACT ET 2018 BOLLIER COPACT IS EASTERN COMPACT ET JORBERARDI GRA 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

WEN OPACT 1200 SOLLEEN OF 

MOITUJO2 3oC TI Page | 147 

Wis 

25. 

Question Bank 

SUD DOCTITE BUDG 

Nns noites MCQ 

IS SOLMEN COMPACT OF JOB FOLATION COMPACT ET 300 ROLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLTEN CONNECT IT JOB SOLLTENICOMPACT T 

D) || and && 

A) and & 

B) && and || C) & and 

Ans: A Note: Bitwise operator 'I' can be used to "set" a particular bit while bitwise operator '&' can be used to "reset" a particular bit. Please note that '&&' and '' are logical operators which evaluate their operands to logical TRUE or FALSE. It should be noted that bitwise operator '&' can be used for checking a particular bit also i.e. whether a bit is set or not. So correct answer is A. 

5. The maximum number of processes that can be in ready state in computer system 

with n CPU's is— 

A) n 

B) n2 

gniwollet adi 

C) 2n 

D) independent of n 

Ans: D Note: The size of ready queue doesn't depend on number of processes. A single processor system may have a large number of processes waiting in ready queue. 

6. Which of the following is not a stable sorting algorithm in its typical implementation? 

A) Selection Sort B) Quick Sort 

C) Marge sort D) Insertion Sort 

Ans: B 
Note: Stability is mainly important when we have key value pairs with duplicate keys possible (like people names as keys and their details as values). And we wish to sort these objects by keys. 

A sorting algorithm is said to be stable if two objects with equal keys appear in the same order in sorted output as they appear in the input array to be sorted. 

7. You have to sort 1GB of data with only 100MB of available main memory. Which sorting technique will be more appropriate? 

A) Heap sort 

B) Insertion sort 

C) Quick sort 
D) Marge sort 

Ans: D 

Note: The data can be sorted using external sorting which uses merging technique. This can be done as follows: 

Divide the data into 10 groups each of size 100. 
 Sort each group and write them to disk. 
Load 10 items from each group into main memory. 

Output the smallest item from the main memory to disk. Load the next item from the group 

whose item was chosen. 

gar 5. Loop step #4 until all items are not outputted. 

lose to xIK 15625 

8. Randomized quicksort is an extension of quicksort where the pivot is chosen randomly. What is the worst-case complexity of sorting n numbers using randomized quicksort? 

A) O(n) 

B) O(n2) 

JEV dal 

e) C) O(n log n) 19D) O(n!)x109 9 SeAns: C Note: Randomized quicksort has expected time complexity as O (n log n), but worst-case time complexity remains same. In worst case the randomized function can pick the index of corner element every time. 

9. Consider the following recursive function fun (x,y). What is the value of 

fun (4,3)? 

int fun (int x, int y) { 

if (x==0) 

return y; 

foxin 

4+3 3*7 

nak bino 

2+10 

C) 12 

return fun (x-1, x+y) 

blaves} 

A) 9 

B) 10 

wolle teat noimaalsob 

www.le omien oldiruv yrov 

D) 1301 

Ans: D Note: Recursion is the process of repeating items in a self-similar way. In programming languages, if a program allows you to call a function inside the same function, then it is called a recursive call of the function. 

COMPACT IT SOLUNTEN COMPACTTY SUNTOR COMPACT ET 200 SOLUTEM COMPACT ET SOLUTION COMPACT ET SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT 300 SOLUTION 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

PACTET 

LUTION COMPACT 27 XOR SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUSTERCOMPACT IT 

MOITUJ02 80LTI Page | 148 

Question Bank 

Ans& noites MCQ 

POATE AD ELAVER CEMPACT LT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JUM SOLUTION COMPACT BY 2018 SELLSTEN CEPPACT (T HALTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN COMPACT IT DOWDONNCTITY) BOLUFEN (DAT DE COPACT I DO SOLLTEN COMPACTED SOUTEN COMPACT 1 O ELUTERCOMPACT IT 

void recursion () { 

recursion(); /* function calls itself */ 

} 

int main() { 

recursion (); } 

10. The average number of key comparisons done in a successful sequential search in a 

list of length n, it is- 

A) log n 

B) (n+1)/2 

C) (n-1)/2 

D) n/2 

Ans: B Note: In computer science, a linear search or sequential search is a method for finding an element within a list. It sequentially checks each element of the list until a match is found or the whole list has been searched. The average number of comparisons in a sequential search is (n+1)/2 where n is the size of the array. If the element is in the 1st position, the number of comparisons will be 1 and if the element is in the last position, the number of comparisons will be n. 

G Total comparison = n(n+1)/2 

For average comparison = (n(n+1)/2)/ n = (n+1)/2 

11. In UNIX, processes that have finished execution but have not yet had their status 

collected are known as- 

A) Sleeping processes 

C) Zombie processes 

B) Stopped processes 

D) Orphan processes 

Ans: C Note: Zombie process- By default, the UNIX system assumes that if child process terminates, the parent process collects some data about the child. As soon as this collection is made, the system releases information bits about the child process and removes its PID from the process table. However, if the parent process fails to collect the child's data, the UNIX is forced to keep the child's PID and termination data in the process table indefinitely. Such a terminated process whose status is not collected is called a zombie process, or simply a zombie 

12. Which of the following is not standard synchronous communication protocol? 

A) PAS 

B) SDLC 

C) SLIP 

D) SMTP Ans: A Note: There are three common synchronous communications protocols: Binary Synchronous Communication (BSC), Synchronous Data Link Control (SDLC), and High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC). 

13. Which of the following is major part of time taken when accessing data on the disk? 

A) Settle time 

C) Waiting time 

B) Rotational delay D) Seek time 

Ans: D 

Note: Seek time is time taken by the head to travel to the track of the disk where the data to be accessed is stored. 

14. In UNIX, the login prompt can be changed by changing the content of the file- 

C) initab 

A) gettydefs B) contrab 

D) init 

Ans: A Note: In Unix, the login prompt can be changed by changing the contents of the file gettydefs. There is nothing like contrab in unix. The inittab file controls what happens whenever a Unix system is rebooted or forced to change run levels. init (short for initialization) is the first process started during booting of the computer system. 

15. Which of the following UNIX commands allows scheduling a program to be 

executed at specifies time? 

A) nice 

B) cron 

Ans: B 

C) date and time 

D) schedule 

DRAIDOWER ONCE SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLATION COMPACT IX SELUTEN COMPACT ET 208 SOLIUTER COMPACT ITS SOLLTEN COMPACT IT IN SELAREN CODEPACT ST3 

DOWDEORPACT ST 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 2003 Page | 149 

Question Bank 

OTROSTER COMPACT ID SOURER CODE 

BUD O 

insa noites MCQ 

EWODORY FOTO DUTEN COMPACT IT J00 HOLLUTION COMPACT ET SOLLATEXCOMPAC 

Note: cron can be used to schedule a particular function to occur every minute, hour, day, week or month. It's normal to use the crontab to perform the editing functions as this automates the process for the cron daemon and makes it easier for normal users to use cron. 

16. Which of the following programming language helps you to learn Android 

programming? 

A) C 

B) SQL 

C) Java 

D) Python 

Ans: C Note: Java is a popular programming language, created in 1995. It is owned by Oracle, and more than 3 billion devices run Java. It is used for: 

Mobile applications (especially Android apps) 

Desktop applications 

Web applications 

Web servers and application servers 

Games 

Database connection. 

C) bit defender 

17. Which tool could be used for detecting vulnerability through SQL injection? 

A) nmap ayton B) metasploit 

D) UML Ans: B Note: metasploit is a penetration testing framework that makes hacking simple. It's an essential tool for many attackers and defenders. Point metasploit at your target, pick an exploit, what payload to drop, and hit Enter. 

18. Which of the following data structure is non-linear type? 

C) Stacks 

idio& 59207 

A) Strings 

B) Lists 

D) None of these Ans: D Note: Examples of the linear data structure are array, queue, stack, linked list, etc. In contrast, tree and graph are the examples of the non-linear data structure. 

19. Which of the standard protocol for network management features? 

20. H 

B) SNA 

B) 2 

C) SNMP 

C) 3 

D) SMTP 

D) Multiple 

Ans: C 

Ans: A 

A) FTP Note: SNMP has become the de facto standard for network management Protocol. SNMP is a protocol for message exchange. It uses the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) transport mechanism to send and retrieve management information, such as MIB variables. 20. How many pairs of stations can simultaneously communicate on Ethernet LAN? 

A) 1 

allot vill ta dold Note: only 1 pair of stations can communicate on Ethernet LAN 

A path for carrying signals between a source and a destination is known as- A) Router 

B) Channel Note: Data communication refers to the exchange of data between a source and a receiver via form of transmission media such as a wire cable. Data communication is said to be local if communicating devices are in the same building or a similarly restricted geographical area. 

21. 

22. In SQL, the 

C) Link 

D) Block 

command is used to recompile a view. 

A) COMPILE VIEW 

B) DEFINE VIEW 

C) ALTER VIEW 

D) CREATE VIEW 

Ans: B 

123 (A 

Ans: C 

Note: Use the ALTER VIEW statement to explicitly recompile a view that is invalid or to modify view constraints. Explicit recompilation lets you locate recompilation errors before run time. 23. Which of the following process scheduling algorithm may lead to starvation? 

A) FIFO B) Round Robin C) Shortest Job Next D) None of these 

Ans: C 

Note: Shortest job next may lead to process starvation for processes which will require a long time to complete if short processes are continually added. 

BOOTDAUDIOMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN CO 

DEUTER COROPRIET ST 200 SEALSTENCOMPACT 1 

SOLUTEN COPIC IT 100 SOLID BROAD COMPACT IT DO SOURER COMPACT IT DE BLUTION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 80t TI Page | 150 

Question Bank 

TEEN COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT TOOLUTION COMPACT 17 JOM BELLITES COMPACT IN 100 COUNTER COMPACT THEANTA COPPACTE ES SOULTER COMP 

insa nalies MCQ 

LUSTER COMPACTIDAUD COMPACT TETECT IT JOB SELUTEN COMPACT TY 

D) Design Ans: D 

24. Which of the following requires the most time in SDLC? 

A) Requirement Analysis B) Testing C) Deployment Note: Coding (Design) is generally the most time-consuming phase of the SDLC. Developers need to think about many things, including: Ensuring code meets the different stakeholders' requirements, often by demonstrating functions in action. 

25. Which of the declaration is correct? 

A) int length; C) int long; 

B) char int D) float double; 

Ans: A 

Note: int length; denotes that variable length is int (integer) data type. char int; here int is a keyword cannot be used a variable name. int long; here long is a keyword cannot be used a variable name. float double; here double is a keyword cannot be used a variable name. 

26. POP3 is a protocol for- 

A) Email Sending 

C) Email Receiving 

B) Email Composing D) Email Storing 

9107 

Ans: C 

Note: Post Office Protocol version 3 (POP3) is a standard mail protocol used to receive emails from a remote server to a local email client. POP3 allows you to download email messages on your local computer and read them even when you are offline. 

27. Which server can you use to dynamically assign IP addresses to the PCs in a LAN? 

A) DHCP Server 

C) DNS Server 

B) Web Server D) FTP Server 

Ans: A 

Note: DHCP is an abbreviation for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. It is an application layer protocol used by hosts for obtaining network setup information. The DHCP is controlled by DHCP server that dynamically distributes network configuration parameters such as IP addresses, subnet mask and gateway address. 

28. Which of the following is the destructor of class Vehicle? 

goor 

A) *Vehicle() 

TO Saulo 

C) ~Vehicle (int value) 

B) ~Vehicle ( D) *Vehicle (int value) 

Ans: B 

Note: A destructor is a member function that is invoked automatically when the object goes out of scope or is explicitly destroyed by a call to delete. A destructor has the same name as the class, preceded by a tilde (~). 

29. An n*n array v is defined as follows: v [i, j]=i-j for all i, j; 1<=i<=n, 1<=j<=n, the 

sum of the element of array v is 

A) 0 

B) n-1 

Note: In this case, the matrix would be- 

Ans: A 

C) n2-3n+2 

D) n2(n+1)/2 

0 

-1 

-2 

-3 

-4 

-5 

-6 

-7 

1 

0 

-1 

-2 

-3 

-4 

-5 

-6 

- 

-n 

- (n-1) s 

2 

3 

23 

123456 

4567 

0 

-1 

-2 

-3 

-4 

-5 

- 

- (n-2) 

S21v 1 melie0 que-1 

-2000 

-3000-4 

2 

1 

0 

-1 

-2 

-3 

- 

- (n-3) 

- 

- (n-4) 

2 

1 

0 

-1 

-2 

- 

- (n-5) 

4 

3 

5 

4 

23 

1 

000 

-1 

- (n-6) 

2 

1 

0 

- 

- (n-6) 

· 

· 

n 

n-1 

n-2 

n-3 

PORET IT DID REALTER COMPACT IT 200 SOLUTION COMPACT TY 2018 BOLLUTION COMPACT IT 2018 BOLLITION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

n-4 

n-5 

TIT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT TO 

n-6 

n-7 

2 

1 

SOUTEN COMPACT IT 

02 800 

Page | 151 

Question Bank 

das noires MCQ 

GOPRO ITAR BUTT SOLUTION COMPACT BY JON SOLUTION COREPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT SOLUTION COMPACT IS BUDDAT ET JOB SOLUTED COMPACT ST XX8 SELANTEN CEDEPICT IN JOBLASTEN COMPACT IT 200 SCAUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTE COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

Now, we take the sum of first row and first column, which comes out to be zero. Similarly, we take the sum of second row and second column, third row and third column, and so on, and it is found that all have a sum equal to zero. So, the sum of all the elements in the matrix is zero. 30. What is time complexity of Huffman coding? 

B) O(n log n) 

C) O(n (log n)^2) 

A) O(n) 

D) O (n^2) Ans: B Note: Operation of the Huffman algorithm. The time complexity of the Huffman algorithm is O(n log n). Using a heap to store the weight of each tree, each iteration requires O(log n) time to determine the cheapest weight and insert the new weight. There are O(n) iterations, one for each item. 31. The operator that cannot be overloaded is 

A) ++ 

C)~ 

D) :: 

Note: Some of the operators cannot be overloaded. These operators are like below- 

B) ( 

66.99 

Member access or dot operator 

99 

"?" Ternary or conditional operator 

Ans: D 

2890985 

".." Scope resolution operator 

66 

"*" Pointer to member operator 

• Sizeof' The object size operator 

"typeid" Object type operator 

32. The maximum number of binary trees that can be formed with three unlabeled 

nodes is- 

2A) 1 

B) 3 

C) 5 

Note: We can find the number of binary tree, Here n = 3 

D) 4 

Number of binary tree = (2C)/ n+1 = (2*3C3)/ 4+1 = 5. So, option (C) is correct. 

D) 127.0.0.1 

Ans: C 

Ans: D 

33. Which of the following TCP/IP addresses constitute the loopback address? 

A) 1.1.1.1 B) 255.255.255.255 C) 127.0.0.0 Note: 127.0.0.1 is the loopback Internet protocol (IP) address also referred to as the "localhost." The address is used to establish an IP connection to the same machine or computer being used by the end- 

user. 

34. Find the output of following Java code line: System.out.println (math.floor(- 

7.4) A)-7 

Note: Syntax: 

B) -7.4 

import math 

math.floor(x) 

Parameter: 

Returns: 

C) -8 

D) -7.2 

Ans: C 

Rojnamots art to me 

x-numeric expression. 

largest integer not greater than x. 

35. Which of the following function converts a string into float in Python? 

A) int (x [. base]) 

C) long (x [, base]) 

B) float(x) D) str(x) 

Note: float(x) Converts x to a floating-point number 

36. What is the output of following code? print 9//2 

A) 4 

B) 4.0 

C) 4.5 

D) Error 

Note: The '//' operator in Python returns the integer part of the floating number. 37. Which functions overloads the ">>" operator? 

COMPACT IT 238 SELAGEN CONNACT INDEWENNACT IT JALUTEN COMPACT STAYERN COMPACT ET 200 OUTER COMPACT 27 2018 BOLLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 BOLATION COMPACT IT 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOS BELLSTEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: B 

Ans: B 

SELUSTER COMPACT IT JOB SERATEN COMPACT IT 2018 SOLLTERCOMPACT IT 

MоITUJOа GOLTI Page | 152 

Question Bank 

FY238 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION CEPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLATION CEDACT IT JOB SELUTEN COMPACT E XONSOLATION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 BOLSTER COMPACT ET 238 SOLSTED COMPACT IT 

A) gt() and B) more() 

Sasa nolles MCQ 

nizio D) None of this 

Ans: D 

Note: 

C) ge() 

She Operator 

Functions 

It_0 

Lear both 

gt ( 

le_0 

ge_0 

eq_0 

!= 

ne_0 

rshift 0 

38. Which of the following operator functions cannot be global i.e. must be a member 

function? 

B) new 

C) delete 

D) all of these 

A) Conversion operator 

Ans: A Note: A conversion operator is an operator that is used to declare a conversion on a user-defined type so that an object of that type can be converted to or from another user-defined type or basic type. The two different types of user-defined conversions include implicit and explicit conversions. Conversion Operator functions cannot be global, i.e., must be a member function. 39. Which of the following is not an operator in Java? 

B) sizeof 

C) new 

D) All of this 

Ans: B 

A) instanceof Note: There is no sizeof operator in Java. We generally don't need size of objects. sto 40. Which of these is not a core data type? 

A) Lists 

B) Dictionary 

Note: Class is a user defined data type. 

an tl olgr 

(C) loob 

C) Class D) Tuples+95 

Probashi Kallyan Bank 

Programmer: 2019 

Ans: C 

Exam Taker: AUST 

1. Number of bits in 'BCD' code used in computing are- 

B) twelve bits 

C) eighteen bits 

A) seven bits 

D) six bits Ans: D Note: BCD ("Binary-Coded Decimal"), also called alphanumeric BCD, alphanumeric BCD, BCD Interchange Code, or BCDIC, is a family of representations of numerals, uppercase Latin letters, and some special and control characters as six-bit character codes. 

2. Which of the following provides a programmer with the facility of using object of a 

class inside other classes? 

D) Composition 

A) Inheritance B) Abstraction C) Encapsulation Note: The process of building complex objects from simple ones is called composition. 3. Type of software which is designed for users to customize programs is- 

B) shareware 

Ans: D 

A) freeware 

C) macros D) none of these 

Ans: A Note: Freeware is software that is free to use. Unlike commercial software, it does not require any payment or licensing fee. It is similar to shareware, but will not eventually ask you for payment to continue using the software. 

GLOBACT II XIN SOLLTEN CEPACT BY 233 ELLATION COMPACT IT 200LUTION COMPACT IT JOB SELLTEN CEPPPACY ST ED SOLUNTER CONVICTITIS COUSSION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOS 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

DEUTD COMPACT IT 

MOITU 

02 801 TI Page | 153 

Question Bank 

HOT BOUWDOOD DOD 

dose nota 

MCQ 

ERSTERY COMPACT SEATER CONCEDEXTERCOMPACT 17 

4. A major challenge in mixing SQL with a general-purpose language is mismatching 

in the 

A) Definition of data 

C) Execution of data 

B) Manipulation of data D) Output of data 

Ans: B 

Note: Data manipulation refers to the process of adjusting data to make it organized and easier to read. Data manipulation language, or DML, is a programming language that adjusts data by inserting, deleting and modifying data in a database such as to cleanse or map the data. 

5. In user facilities, copying of all records onto a main store from permanent store is 

considered as- 

B) rename file 

C) save file D) load file 

Ans: D 

A) delete file Note: A load file is used to import images or coding (e.g., To, From, CC, BCC and Subject fields within an email) into a database. It sets out links between the records in a database and the document image files to which each record pertains. This is a critical deliverable of any processing, scanning, or coding job. Without a correctly structured load file, documents will not properly link to their respective database records. 

6. To divide a class C network into a maximum of 14 subnets - each capable of having 

up to 14 hosts, the subnet mask used should be: 

A) 255.255.255.0 

C) 255.255.255.240 

B) 255.255.255.192 

D) 255.255.255.78 

wolfo) odt to doid fer 

Ans: C 

Note: If need up to 14 hosts so require host bit 4, because host= 24-2-14, so subnet mask= 255.255.255.240 

7. If master and transaction file have keys in same order, then it takes 

B) more time C) many hours 

A) less time 

D) many days Ans: A Note: A file is a collection of rated data that is treated as a single unit on a peripheral device. For example, text document in word processing. File is of two types: 

COO 

Master file: contains records of permanent data types. Master files are created at the time when you install your business. if you wish to convert your company into computerized one you need to create master file which can be created by using your manual file folder and keying data onto storage devices for example the name of customer, Date of birth, gender etc. these are permanent data types. 

bes f 

Transaction file: contains data which is used to update the records of master file for example address of the costumer etc. 

8. What is not the advantage of IPv6 over IPv4? 

A) longer address 

C) More real IP addresses 

Note: More Efficient Routing 

- 

B) Classification of traffic 

D) Jumbo Payload 

Ans: A 

IPv6 reduces the size of routing tables and makes routing more efficient and hierarchical. In IPv6 networks, fragmentation is handled by the source device, rather than a router, using a protocol for discovery of the path's maximum transmission unit. 

9. What is the precedence of arithmetic operators (from highest to lowest)? 

A) %,+,/,*,- 

C) %,+,-,*,/ 

B) +,-,%,*,/ D) %,*,/,+,- 

Ans: D 

Note: Precedence of arithmetic operators from highest to lowest- () => Brackets; % => Modulus; *=> Multiplication; / => Division; + => Addition; - => Subtraction 

COPPICTT 25 BLUSER COPPICT IS ABSOLAREN COMPACT IT XI BELLETERONOS EURO CARICO KUD DOCTORUDONTBEURER COMPACT IS XI 

E COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

MOITUJ02 BOLTI Page | 154 

Question Bank 

PER SOLUTION CEMENT ID QUION COMPACT TY XD SOLUTEEN COMPACT ET XD BOLLITEEN COMPACT IT 20 WAUTEM COMPACT IT COMPACT SY DEBUTER CONCITANDOCT 

insa noites MCQ 

QURD BOOT BOUDBRUD DOTABUIDE PACT ST 

10. Once connection is set up, program can send SQL commands to database by using 

A) SQLExcelConn 

C) SQLExcelDirect 

B) SQLDirect D) SQLConnect 

Ans: D 

Note: SQLConnect establishes connections to a driver and a data source. The connection handle references storage of all information about the connection to the data source, including status, transaction state, and error information. Syntax: 

SQLRETURN SQLConnect ( 

SQLHDBC SQLCHAR * 

ConnectionHandle, 

ServerName, 

ob af to sidetis vnuk do SQLSMALLINT 

Name Length1, 

SQLCHAR 307 SQLSMALLINT 

* 

UserName, 

Name Length2); 

A) transaction file 

C) order file 

B) direct file 

D) sequence file 

11. File used to update information in computer's master file is classified as 

Ans: A 

Note: The data in transaction files is used to update the master files, which contain the data about the subjects of the organization (customers, employees, vendors, etc.). Transaction files also serve as audit trails and history for the organization. There can be many more fields depending on the organization. 12. Testing of software with actual data and in actual environment is known as- 

A) Regression testing C) Alpha testing 

B) Beta testing D) None of these 

Ans: B 

Note: Beta Testing is also known as field testing. A beta test is the second phase of software testing in which a sampling of the intended audience tries the product out. (Beta is the second letter of the Greek alphabet.) Originally, the term alpha testing meant the first phase of testing in a software development 

process. 

13. What are the values of the following expressions? 2** (3**2), (2**3) **2, 2**3**2 

A) 64, 512, 64 

C) 512, 512, 512 

B) 64, 64, 64 D) 512, 64, 512 

Ans: D 

Note: 2**(3**2) = 2(3^2)=29=512; (2**3) **2= (23)2 =82=64; 2**3**2= 23^2=29= 512. 14. Special set of characters that computer associates with specific user identification is 

classified as 

A) password 

C) inquiry code 

B) identity code D) dump code 

Ans: A 

Note: Sometimes abbreviated as PW and PWD, a password is a set of secret characters or words used to authenticate access to a digital system. Passwords help ensure that computers or data can only be accessed by those who were granted the right to view or access them. 

B) Hello World 

15. What will be the output of the following PHP code? <?php "Hello World" ?> 

A) Error 

C) Nothing D) None of this Ans: C Note: If you need to output something onto the screen you'll need to use echo or print. The echo statement can output one or more strings. In general terms, the echo statement can display anything that can be displayed to the browser, such as string, numbers, variables values, the results of 

POTBOJDEN COMPACT IT IN SOLUTED COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLATION CEN 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

QUIDONETTE SUWUND COMPACT ST 

MOITUJO BOLTI Page | 155 

Question Bank 

dinsă noites MCQ 

expressions etc. Both echo and print statement works exactly the same way except that the print statement can only output one string, and always returns 1. 

PACT 17 FOR SERIJGEORD QUEEN DONT ET JOB SEXLAYER ONEDALISTEN COMPACT INNOCENTER CEPPACT IS 200 KOLUTEW OPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

16. What is the output of the code shown? 

% (qty)d more % (food) s'{'qty':1, 'food': 'spam'} A) Error 

B) 1 more spam 

C) No output 

D) 1 more foods Ans: B Note: String formatting also allows conversion targets on the left to refer to the keys in a dictionary coded on the right and fetch the corresponding values. In the code shown above, (qty) and (food) in the format string on the left refers to keys in the dictionary literal on the right and fetch their assorted values. Hence the output of the code shown above is: 1 more spam. 

17. To cheek to see of the Web server you are trying to reach is available or is down, 

which command line utility should you use? 

B) ICS 

C) Telnet 

A) PING 

D) None of these Ans: A Note: PING (Packet Internet Groper) command is used to check the network connectivity between host and server/host. This command takes as input the IP address or the URL and sends a data packet to the specified address with the message "PING" and get a response from the server/host this time is recorded which is called latency. 

18. 

A) TCP 

Provides a connection oriented reliable service for sending message. 

D) None of these 

B) IP 

C) UDP 

Ans: A Note: IP is an unreliable protocol because it does not guarantee the delivery of a datagram to its destination. The reliability must be provided by the upper layer protocols like TCP. IP does not support flow control, retransmission, acknowledgement and error recovery. 

19. Device which converts digital signals into sound and sound from telephone handset 

into digital signals is classified as- 

A) digital coupler 

C) acoustic coupler 

B) analogue coupler 

D) terminal coupler 

Ans: C 

Note: An acoustic coupler is an audio interface device for coupling a computer with audio into or out of a telephone. It may also be a terminal device linking data terminals and radios with telephone networks. The link or interface is done by picking up audio signals from a telephone handset rather than a direct electrical connection. 

20. What type of network provides access to the regional service providers and typically 

span distances greater than 100 miles? 

B) MAN 

C) WAN 

D) WLAN 

Ans: C 

A) LAN Note: LAN (Local Area Networks) are constructed for small geographical areas within the range of 1- 5 km such as offices, schools, colleges, small industries or a cluster of buildings. It is extensively used to design and troubleshoot. 

MAN (Metropolitan Area Network) covers a bigger geographical area than LAN Network E.g. cities and districts. It can also be considered as a superior version of the LAN network. As LAN covers only a minor area of the network, MAN is designed to connect a city or two villages together through it. The area covered by MAN is generally 50-60 km. Fiber optical cable and twisted pair cables are used for connectivity for communication through MAN networks. 

WAN (Wide Area Network) is widely used in long-distance communication systems. It covers bigger areas i.e. right from a state to a country. Therefore, the geographical area it covers is from 100 to 

COMPACT STAREXATED COMPACT IT LASTEN COMPACT IT JOB SCLUSTELEN CONSPICY ESCLUSTER COMPACT ET 2ND BELASTER COMPACT IT SALUTE COMPOT IT IS SOUTEN COMPACT IT JOB BELUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT ET 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

WATER COMPACT ST JOSOLATE COMPACT IT JUSTENCOMPACT TT 

MOITUJO2 800 TI Page | 156 

Question Bank 

in noida MCQ 

300 ALITER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT 208 SOLUTION COMPACT IT SORTZEN CEPACT ITD SALUTEN COMPACT IT DID SELLATTEN COMPACT FIR SOLUSTER COMPACT TY XOSSELLATION COMPACT BY JOS SOLUTEN-COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTIONCOMPACT IT 

several 1000 km. WAN networks are complex in nature, however, they are widely used in mobile communications as they cover up long distances. 

21. Which of the following type is not supported for mobile application viewing for Google 

docs? 

A) Spreadsheets 

C) Database files 

B) Word processor files D) All of these 

Note: Google Docs creates native HTML files that are stored online. 

22. The term push and pop are related to the- 

A) array 

B) stacks 

C) lists 

Ans: C 

D) All of these Ans: B 

Note: The terms push and pop are usually used for stacks, not queues or linked lists. A stack is a last- in-first-out (LIFO) data structure; in other words, the first thing to be removed is the item most recently added. A push is when you put a new item onto the stack, and a pop is when you take it off. 23. Interleaving of records to form one file containing all records is classified as 

C) file learning 

A) merging 

B) finding 

D) searching 

Ans: A 

Note: Data merging is the process of combining two or more data sets into a single data set. Most often, this process is necessary when you have raw data stored in multiple files, worksheets, or data tables, that you want to analyze all in one go. 

24. Type of error which occurs when data is transferred from one device to another is 

classified as- 

A) transmission error 

C) software error 

B) interval error D) discontinued error 

Ans: A 

Note: When data is transmitted from one device to another device, the system does not guarantee whether the data received by the device is identical to the data transmitted by another device. An Error is a situation when the message received at the receiver end is not identical to the message transmitted. 

Tors can be classified into two categories: Single-Bit Error, Burst Error. 

A Non-Functional Software testing is done to check if the user interface is easy to use and understand- 

A) Security Testing 

C) Block Box Testing 

B) Unit testing 

Petra D) Usability Testing 

Ans: D 

Note: Usability testing, a non-functional testing technique that is a measure of how easily the system can be used by end users. It is difficult to evaluate and measure but can be evaluated based on the below parameters: 

Level of Skill required to learn/use the software. It should maintain the balance for both novice and expert user. 

Time required to get used to in using the software. 

The measure of increase in user productivity if any. 

Assessment of a user's attitude towards using the software. 

Black Box Testing is a software testing method in which the internal structure/ design/ implementation of the item being tested is not known to the tester. 

Security testing is a testing technique to determine if an information system protects data and maintains functionality as intended. 

Unit testing, a testing technique using which individual modules are tested to determine if there are any issues by the developer himself. It is concerned with functional correctness of the standalone modules. 

PACT ET EXID SCALLATION COMPACT ET JOS BOLLITEN COMPACT IT 200 BELLSTEN COMPACT 27 XES HELLSTEN COMPACT TY XOS SOLISTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SQUIRTEN CEREM 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

WHEN COMPACTO OVER CONCLOUD COMPACT IT 

Page | 157 

MOITUJO2 801 

Question Bank 

PACTES FREQUUTER COMPACT ET DEUREN PICT ET ON 

POTDRAUDONOTBOOLATION COM 

AS SEATER GENPACT IT 

dnsa noites MCQ 

ASTER COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB GOWTER COMPACT ET 2018 SOLTEONCOMPACT IT 

26. A device that allows one of several analog or digital input signals which are to be 

selected and transmits input that is selected into a single medium is called- 

A) signal changer 

C) de-multiplexer 

B) multiplexer 

D) digital transmitter 

wollet od to doid 

Sex Ans: B 

Note: A Multiplexer is a device that allows one of several analog or digital input signals which are to be selected and transmits the input that is selected into a single medium. Multiplexer is also known as Data Selector. 

B) statement box D) none of these 

27. Program background, program functions and computing requirements are part of- 

A) decision box C) operations detail 

Ans: A Note: A background process is a computer process that runs behind the scenes (i.e., in the background) and without user intervention. Typical tasks for these processes include logging, system monitoring, scheduling, and user notification. The background process usually is a child process created by a control process for processing computing task. After the creation, the child process will run on its own course for performing the task independent of the control process, therefore, the control Process 

is free of performing another designated task. Which of the following medium is used for broadband local networks? 

B) Optic fiber 

C) CATV 

Ans: C 

A) Coaxial 

D) DUTP Note: CATV is one of the most common methods of transmitted television signals to a consumer's home, using radio frequency signals transmitted through coaxial cable. More recently, CATV can also be transmitted using optical fiber, which utilizes pulses of light to transmit a signal. 

29. Variable which use same name in whole program and in its all routines thus best 

classified as- 

A) middle variable 

C) local variable 

B) default variable 

D) global variable 

bottleasto od 60 Ans: D 

Note: In computer programming, a global variable is a variable with global scope, meaning that it is visible (hence accessible) throughout the program, unless shadowed. The set of all global variables is known as the global environment or global state. 

30. Issuance of cash through terminal outside bank is an example of- 

B) interfaces 

D) telecommunication 

Ans: A 

31. Any hardware or software which is used to connect two devices by enabling them to 

A) terminals 

C) hardware devices 

communicate is classified as- 

A) analogue modem 

C) analogue interface 

B) digital modem D) interface 

9a huge br 

Ans: D 

Note: Interfaces are networking communication points in computer. Each interface is associated with a physical or virtual networking device. An interface is a physical device, port, or connection that interacts with the computer or other hardware device. For example, IDE and SATA are disk drive interfaces for computer hard drives and ATAPI is an early interface for CD-ROM drives. 

32. The name of the testing which is done to make sure the existing features are not 

affected by new changes 

A) Recursive testing 

C) Whitebox testing 

B) Regression testing D) Unit testing 

B 

SLUTER COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTEN COMPACT IT 208 SQLUSTER CONSACTIT JOB SOLUTION COMPACTS COMPACT 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Ans: B 

BASTION COMPACT IT OUT COMPACT ET 200 SOLASTENCOMPACT ST 

MOITUJO2 BOLTI Page | 158 

Question Bank 

50 nolles MCQ 

TARBOOMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTE COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT DI KA SAUTEM COMPACT IT IS COUTER COMPACT SOURCE AUSTER CEPPACT II XOS SOLUTEN COMPACT A CLUTEN COMPACT EX EXTERCOMPACT ST 

Note: Regression Testing is defined as a type of software testing to confirm that a recent program or code change has not adversely affected existing features. Regression executed to ensure existing functionalities work fine. Whether Whitebox testing is tested by developer and unit testing is small portion testing. 

33. Set of numbers used to check all groups record within limits of data is classified as- 

A) variable check B) decimal check C) type check D) range check Ans: D Note: A range check is a validation technique. It checks the value of data to see if it is within a certain range e.g. the month of the year must be between 1 and 12. 

34. Process of converting data or information in the form of which is readily availabie 

for processing is called- 

A) encoding 

B) decoding 

C) translating D) data organization 

Ans: A 

Note: Data conversion is the conversion of computer data from one format to another. Throughout a computer environment, data is encoded in a variety of ways. Encoding is the process of translating data between two formats according to a set of rules or a formula. For example, you can encode "abc" to "ABC" using lowercase-to-uppercase rules. Decoding is the inverse process. You can decode "ABC" to "abc" using the same set of rules. 

35. All decimal values and integers are included in set of 

A) whole numbers 

B) natural numbers C) real numbers 

D) integers Ans: B 

Note: A natural number is a number that occurs commonly and obviously in nature. As such, it is a whole, non-negative number. The set of natural numbers, denoted N, can be defined in either of two ways: N = {0, 1, 2, 3, ...}. 

B) modeling C) construction 

36. Waterfall model phase in which system design is prepared and this system design helps is specifying system requirements and define overall system architecture is- A) planning 

D) communication Ans: B Note: There are different software development life cycle models specify and design, which are followed during the software development phase. These models are also called "Software Development Process Models." Each process model follows a series of phase unique to its type to ensure success in the step of software development. The waterfall model is a sequential design process in which progress is seen as flowing steadily downwards (like a waterfall) through the phases of Conception, Initiation, Analysis, Design, Construction, Testing, Production/ Implementation, and Maintenance. 

37. Which of the following is not a Software Development Life Cycle Phase? 

B) Coding 

C) Testing 

D) None of these 

A) Test Closure 

Ans: A Note: Known as the 'software development life cycle,' these six steps include planning, analysis, design (Coding), development & implementation, testing & deployment and maintenance. 38. Language compilers and interpreters does not translate statements correctly when 

they have 

A) transcription error 

B) base errors C) syntax error 

D) logical error Ans: C Note: A syntax error is an error in the source code of a program. Since computer programs must follow strict syntax to compile correctly, any aspects of the code that do not conform to the syntax of the programming language will produce a syntax error. 

39. Which of the following web service can be controlled by iAWSManager cloud app 

from an iPhone? 

A) EC2 

B) ELB 

C) SQS 

D) All of these 

Ans: D 

XS HALTER COMPACT ST JOB ROLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB HOLSTEN COMPACTET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOB SOLUTION COMPA 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

COMPACT ET DODIACT ET 

MOITULIO2 800 TI Page | 159 

Question Bank 

Has no1.0! 

MCQ 

DOM DATE ADDRID KAREN CONROT 1/2 BOUTES DRACTIES SURE COMPACTTY JOB EXATION COMPOT DOUNDATION SOLUTION COMPACT IT IS SOLUTION COMPACT 17 JOS SOLUTION COMPACT ET JOS SOLUTION COMPACT ST JOS SOLUTNCOMPACT 

Note: iAWSManager lets control AWS EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud), ELB (Elastic Load Balancing), S3, CF, SQS (Simple Queue Service) and SDB Web services from an iPhone. 

40. Five components that make up a data communications system are message, sender, 

receiver, medium and- 

A) Code 

B) Connecting device C) Protocol D) All of these Ans: C Note: Five Components or Elements of a Data Communication: Message, Sender, Receiver, Medium (Communication Channel) and Protocol. It is a digital language through which we communicate with others on the Internet. Protocol meaning is that it a set of mutually accepted and implemented rules at both ends of the communications channel for the proper exchange of information. 

Probashi Kallyan Bank Assistant Programmer: 2019 Exam Taker: AUST 

1. Link list can be implement using? 

A) Array 

B) Pointers ga 

C) Both A & B 

D) None of these 

anding slodw 

Ans: B 

Note: A pointer is a variable whose value is the address of another variable, i.e., direct address of the memory location. Like any variable or constant, you must declare a pointer before using it to store any variable address. 

2. Which of the following is a design pattern? 

B) List 

C) Queue 

D) All of these 

A) Factory 

Ans: A Note: Factory pattern is one of the most used design patterns in Java. This type of design pattern comes under creational pattern as this pattern provides one of the best ways to create an object. In Factory pattern, we create object without exposing the creation logic to the client and refer to newly created object using a common interface. 

3. Method used in writing and design of a program is termed as- 

A) Bottom-up method 

C) split method 

B) top-down method D) None of these 

930803 

tre Ans: B 

Note: A top-down approach (also known as stepwise design and stepwise refinement and in some cases used as a synonym of decomposition) is essentially the breaking down of a system to gain insight into its compositional sub-systems in a reverse engineering fashion. In a top-down approach an overview of the system is formulated, specifying, but not detailing, any first-level subsystems. 

4. 

Ans: D 

Place where large amount of data is stored outside central processing unit is called pole A) Peripherals 

penu You B) Control unit of bas 25liqui C) Al unit 

D) Backing store Note: The term backing storage refers to any nonvolatile data storage that will retain a computer's data. even after the computer is powered off. Common types of backing storage devices are hard drives, SSD, external hard disk drivers. optical media such as CD or DVD. and flash media such as thumb drivers and memory sticks. 

5. Which of the following program helps you to learn Android programming? 

A) C 

B) SQL 

C) Java 

D) HTML 

Ans: C 

Note: Java is a widely used programming language expressly designed for use in the distributed environment of the internet. It is the most popular programming language for Android smartphone 

EPICT ITXES QUEER COMPACTET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT ET 200 SOLUTION COMPACT ET X33 SCLUSTER COMPACT STX SOLUSTER COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT SOLUTION COMPACT ET) 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

WTEN COM 

SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT 

DO FOLUTER COMPACT ET 

Page | 160 

Question Bank 

MCQ 

applications and is also among the most favored for the development of edge devices and the internet of things. 

EB SLUCEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ET 2018 SOLUTION COMPACT IT SOLUTER COMPACT IT 2018 LATER COMPACT DIXSOURIER-COMPACT IY 2018 ENCICI E DEUDORTENOIDSTEDRCONDACT IT 

6. Which one is modern light weight message exchange format? 

A) JSON 

B) XML 

C) MX 

D) HTML 

Ans: A 

Note: JSON and XML as, both are for data interchange between systems, but there is a big difference between JSON and XML that JSON is more lightweight than XML. 

7. In C++, the idea to hiding the details of how something is implemented is known as 

A) inheritance 

C) recursion 

B) encapsulation 

D) polymorphism 

ed to 

Ans: B 

Note: In Object-Oriented Programming, Encapsulation is defined as binding together the data and the functions that manipulate them. 

8. The only language understood by a digital computer is called 

A) Assembly Language 

C) Machine language 

B) High level language D) None of these 

Ans: C 

Note: In computer programming, machine code, consisting of machine language instructions, is a low-level programming language used to directly control a computer's central processing unit (CPU). Each instruction causes the CPU to perform a very specific task, such as a load, a store, a jump, or an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) operation on one or more units of data in the CPU's registers or memory. 9. Which of the following is a project scheduling method that can be applied to 

software development? 

B) CPM 

C) Both A & B 

D) CMM 

Ans: C 

A) PERT Note: Program evaluation and review technique (PERT) and critical path method (CPM) are two project scheduling methods that can be applied to software development. 10. In Java, which operator is used to create an object? 

A) class 

B) scanf 

D74C) print 

D) None of these 

Ans: D 

Note: Java new Operator is the most popular way to create an object in Java. A new operator is also followed by a call to constructor which initializes the new object. While we create an object it occupies space in the heap. Syntax: 

class_name object_name = new class_name() 

11. "The time to communicate between Bangladesh and USA is the same as that to communicate between two adjacent houses is Bangladesh" - In which case is the above true? A) Satellite 

B) Fiber Optic C) Twisted Pair 

D) Radio Link 

Ans: A Note: A satellite is a body that moves around another body in a mathematically predictable path called an Orbit. A communication satellite is nothing but a microwave repeater station in space that is helpful in telecommunications, radio, and television along with internet applications. 

12. Which kind of software testing strategy starts with testing the fundamental 

components first? 

A) Top-down testing C) Stress Testing 

B) Bottom-up testing D) Back to Back testing 

Ans: A 

Note: Top-down integration testing technique used in order to simulate the behavior of the lower-level modules that are not yet integrated. In this integration testing, testing takes place from top to bottom. First high-level modules are tested and then low-level modules and finally integrating the low-level modules to a high level to ensure the system is working as intended. 

COMPACT IS ER SOLLTIER COMPACT IT SUR SULLITION COMPACT IT SOLUTION COMPACT TO SOLUTION COMPACT IT 308 SOLUTION COMPACT ITS SOLIVEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT IT JOB SOLLTEN COPERIT DS SOLUTEN COMPACT EX SOLUTEN COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION COMPACT ST 

COMPACT IT JOB SOLUTION 

Page | 161**